In Pakistan, there are a family of five and one of them have a problem with sweat. The kid can’t go to the street on daylight because she or he can’t sweat and the body can’t respond for this. Our body must sweat to get out some specific rests of nutrients. There are doctor that study this experiences looking for a resolution for 2% of the population that have this problem. There are people that sweat a lot and there are others that don’t sweat at all. The human sweat more than the animals.

The scientists make several research for development of the some people, people that can not have to development several ability of the body. they are making study to show that there are many subject to this and they are studying the development and may people can walk, run and others things.

In Pakistan, there is a family who suffer from a disease in their children called Hyperhidrosis. This disease affect the temperature of the body and is responsible for embarrassing problems with production of sweat. The children cannot stay for a long time out of their houses because the production of sweat constrange them. Researchers are investigating some drugs to resolve it.

Sweat disorder. It is a disease of a skin. The scientists are studying about it and developing drugs. The sweat start in their palm.

It’s about the first family in Pakistan and the children that has an individual sweet secretion. And the study of the protein that could be help reduced in sixty percent. The text tells too about the relation with the brain and that the protein it’s important in this process.

The text that I read, it spoke about sweat. It spoke too a family of the Pakistan that has five person that they was doing a treatment with drugs medicament.

It is an investigation about sweat and one University with yours doctors study one member of the one family that have this trouble. This trouble happens a lot of people and this person used Botox whit your medicine.

In Pakistan, there are two percent of families who has a biological disorder that consist in sweat without any provocation. In order of that, people can’t be expose to the sun otherwise they will be killed.

Pakinstan has a family of only five person. The children is keeping in house. Researcher about the brain. Human is able to... animals run faster than us, but they are not able to keep for long time. We have something in our body that absorb.

In the city of Parkistan there is a family with a rare disease that they cannot sweat. Some scientists have been studied the gene of this family and they discovered that have a part of their brain that do not work right. With this studied the scientists get the manner to help people that used sweating a lot.

A Paquistan family have a rare condition, they cannot produces sweat. The five members of the family need stay at home at the day because they can not balance the temperature of their body. This is a rare condition and searchers have been try to find a solution to this. A possible solution was found, a protein that stimulates a canal in the brain composed by calcium that responds to the production of sweat in the body. This study should help to find a solution to the opposite condition. There a opposite condition in that people produces excessive sweat. Botox can be used to treat this condition but it could be very painful. Humans have the biggest capability to sweating between all the species in the world and this is the reason that they are in the top of the pyramid. some animals can run so fast but they can not do this for a long, different of humans that can run for a long because their capability of production of sweat helps them to balance their body’s temperature.

The text comments about the sweat and the effects in one family, specifically in the kids, this thing is not common in kids, and it comments it is common in adults and animals exercise for a long time.

There’s a family on Pakistan that have a genetic problem: they don’t sweat. Some scientists are doing researches about it and trying to find a solution. At contrast, another family have excessive sweat, they cannot go out in the sun because they can die, what is another mystery.

It was about sweat glands. It started talking about a special family, there were kids. A study was made with them, it was related to sweating. This study was made by a specialist called Dhal. He analysed nervous system and the brain temperature as well.