Erika Fille T. Legara, Christopher P. Monterola, Clarissa David,
Complex network tools in building expert systems that perform framing analysis,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 40, Issue 11,
2013,
Pages 4600-4608,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2013.01.064.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417413000961)
Abstract: Framing, in its specific application to media research, is defined as the “central organizing idea for making sense of an issue or conflict and suggesting what is at stake.” It can be found in various disciplines of the social sciences, most notably in political science, psychology, and communication research. Due to the fuzzy nature of frames, identifying them has proven to be quite complex. Here, we perform framing analysis on a corpus of news texts on the population and family planning issue in the Philippines by operating two varying approaches: human-based and computer-assisted. A singular holistic approach to framing is initially implemented where coders/domain experts classify each news text to a specific pre-defined frame. This traditional approach is known to raise serious issues on the reliability and validity of the results mainly due to human’s intrinsic biases. To address such issues, we propose a novel technique that synergically combines the method of Matthes and Kohring (2008) and complex networks approach. In our model, the codings of texts are cast as a network of content analytic variables (CAVs). Our proposed method tackles the clustering issue that MK raised, which plagues framing scholars in the quantitative identification of news frames in texts. Moreover, the research is significant on a societal level as it also aims to gain perspective for reasons on the lack of progress in discussions about suitable population policies in most developing countries like the Philippines.
Keywords: Framing analysis; Complex network analysis; Clustering analysis; Community detection

Tanmoy Chakraborty, Saptarshi Ghosh, Noseong Park,
Ensemble-based overlapping community detection using disjoint community structures,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 163,
2019,
Pages 241-251,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2018.08.033.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705118304258)
Abstract: While there has been a plethora of approaches for detecting disjoint communities from real-world complex networks, some methods for detecting overlapping community structures have also been recently proposed. In this work, we argue that, instead of developing separate approaches for detecting overlapping communities, a promising alternative is to infer the overlapping communities from multiple disjoint community structures. We propose an ensemble-based approach, called EnCoD, that leverages the solutions produced by various disjoint community detection algorithms to discover the overlapping community structure. Specifically, EnCoD generates a feature vector for each vertex from the results of the base algorithms and learns which features lead to detect densely connected overlapping regions in an unsupervised way. It keeps on iterating until the likelihood of each vertex belonging to its own community maximizes. Experiments on both synthetic and several real-world networks (with known ground-truth community structures) reveal that EnCoD significantly outperforms nine state-of-the-art overlapping community detection algorithms Finally, we show that EnCoD is generic enough to be applied to networks where the vertices are associated with explicit semantic features. To the best of our knowledge, EnCoD is the second ensemble-based overlapping community detection approach after MEDOC Chakraborty (2016).
Keywords: Ensemble algorithm; Overlapping communities; Community detection

Tao Yi, Shanfan Zhang, Zhan Bu, Jinwei Du, Changjian Fang,
Link prediction based on higher-order structure extraction and autoencoder learning in directed networks,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 241,
2022,
108241,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2022.108241.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705122000727)
Abstract: Link prediction, which aims to estimate the likelihood of links based on the observed links and/or node attributes, is a common task in complex network analysis and graph data mining. Modeling and exploring high-order structure, also called network motif, are essential for understanding the fundamental structure that control and mediate the behavior of various complex systems. Most existing link prediction methods do not fully consider the high-order structure in the network. In addition, they mainly focus on undirected networks and therefore ignore the directionality of links. To this end, we propose a novel Autoencoder model based on high-order structure to solve the problems of existing link prediction methods. Specifically, we first provide an efficient motif adjacency matrix learning algorithm, which can be used to extract high-order structure in directed networks, and construct multiple motif adjacency matrices. Then, we extend the Graph Autoencoder (GAE) and Variational Autoencoder (VAE) frameworks to solve the link prediction problem in directed networks, which consists of three core modules. (i) First (Node Embedding): a novel encoder scheme is presented to learn the node embeddings from each motif adjacency matrix; (ii) Second (Information Fusion): a robust attention scheme is further introduced to aggregate information of node embeddings learned from multiple motif adjacency matrices to form the final semantically rich node embedding matrix; (iii) Third (Link Prediction): an efficient decoder scheme is finally proposed to reconstruct the target directed network in a multiscale way, by jointly utilizing node embeddings and PageRank centrality, the directions of links can be effectively inferred based on the classic gravitational heuristic formula. Extensive experiments were applied on various types of directed networks to validate the performance of our proposed approach through comparisons with the state-of-the-art link prediction technologies.
Keywords: Link prediction; Directed networks; Autoencoder; Higher-order structure; Attention; PageRank

D.R. Amancio, M.G.V. Nunes, O.N. Oliveira, T.A.S. Pardo, L. Antiqueira, L. da F. Costa,
Using metrics from complex networks to evaluate machine translation,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 390, Issue 1,
2011,
Pages 131-142,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2010.08.052.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437110007557)
Abstract: Establishing metrics to assess machine translation (MT) systems automatically is now crucial owing to the widespread use of MT over the web. In this study we show that such evaluation can be done by modeling text as complex networks. Specifically, we extend our previous work by employing additional metrics of complex networks, whose results were used as input for machine learning methods and allowed MT texts of distinct qualities to be distinguished. Also shown is that the node-to-node mapping between source and target texts (English–Portuguese and Spanish–Portuguese pairs) can be improved by adding further hierarchical levels for the metrics out-degree, in-degree, hierarchical common degree, cluster coefficient, inter-ring degree, intra-ring degree and convergence ratio. The results presented here amount to a proof-of-principle that the possible capturing of a wider context with the hierarchical levels may be combined with machine learning methods to yield an approach for assessing the quality of MT systems.
Keywords: Machine translation; Evaluation; Complex networks; Machine learning

Edilson A. Corrêa, Diego R. Amancio,
Word sense induction using word embeddings and community detection in complex networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 523,
2019,
Pages 180-190,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2019.02.032.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437119301852)
Abstract: Word Sense Induction (WSI) is the ability to automatically induce word senses from corpora. The WSI task was first proposed to overcome the limitations of manually annotated corpus that are required in word sense disambiguation systems. Even though several works have been proposed to induce word senses, existing systems are still very limited in the sense that they make use of structured, domain-specific knowledge sources. In this paper, we devise a method that leverages recent findings in word embeddings research to generate context embeddings, which are embeddings containing information about the semantical context of a word. In order to induce senses, we modeled the set of ambiguous words as a complex network. In the generated network, two instances (nodes) are connected if the respective context embeddings are similar. Upon using well-established community detection methods to cluster the obtained context embeddings, we found that the proposed method yields excellent performance for the WSI task. Our method outperformed competing algorithms and baselines, in a completely unsupervised manner and without the need of any additional structured knowledge source.
Keywords: Word sense induction; Language networks; Complex networks; Word embeddings; Community detection; Word sense disambiguation; Semantic networks

Lucas Guerreiro, Filipi N. Silva, Diego R. Amancio,
A comparative analysis of knowledge acquisition performance in complex networks,
Information Sciences,
Volume 555,
2021,
Pages 46-57,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2020.12.060.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025520312263)
Abstract: Discovery processes have been an important topic in the network science field. The exploration of nodes can be understood as the knowledge acquisition process taking place in the network, where nodes represent concepts and edges are the semantical relationships between concepts. While some studies have analyzed the performance of the knowledge acquisition process in particular network topologies, here we performed a systematic performance analysis in well-known dynamics and topologies. Several interesting results have been found. Overall, all learning curves displayed the same learning shape, with different speed rates. We also found ambiguities in the feature space describing the learning curves, meaning that the same knowledge acquisition curve can be generated in different combinations of network topology and dynamics. A surprising example of such patterns are the learning curves obtained from random and Waxman networks: despite the very distinct characteristics in terms of global structure, several curves from different models turned out to be similar. All in all, our results suggest that different learning strategies can lead to the same learning performance. From the network reconstruction point of view, however, this means that learning curves of observed sequences should be combined with other sequence features if one aims at inferring network topology from observed sequences.
Keywords: Knowledge acquistion; Network search; Network dynamics; Complex networks; Random walks

Zhihua Chen, Xinguo Ming, Elise Vareilles, Olga Battaia,
Modularization of smart product service: A framework integrating smart product service blueprint and weighted complex network,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 123,
2020,
103302,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2020.103302.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361520305364)
Abstract: Modularization of smart product service (SPS) emerges as a priority strategy to agilely satisfy the dynamic customization requirement and to flexibly response to the rapid market change. Compared with the traditional product service, the SPS have more complicated interactions between the service components due to the novel characteristics caused by the application of smart technologies. The SPS modularization presents great differences from the identification of service component, correlation evaluation and module partition with the traditional product service modularization. However, most the existing research mainly focuses on the context of traditional product service, while containing scant study of smart product service. Therefore, this study proposes a hybrid framework for SPS modularization. In the framework, a cyber-physical product service blueprint is firstly proposed to represent the SPS operation process and identify the SPS components. Then, a rough-fuzzy correlation matrix is presented to determine the comprehensive interdependence between all pairs of SPS components with fully considering the hybrid decision uncertainties involved in the evaluation process, i.e., intrapersonal linguistic vagueness and interpersonal preference diversity. After that, the complex network theory is used to construct the SPS network and a modified Girvan-Newman algorithm is adopted for the SPS module partition. Finally, an illustrative modularization case of smart gearbox maintenance service and some caparisons with other methods demonstrate the feasibility and validity of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Smart product service; Modularization; Product service blueprint; Rough-fuzzy number; Complex network; Girvan-Newman

Jianyu Li, Jie Zhou,
Chinese character structure analysis based on complex networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 380,
2007,
Pages 629-638,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2007.02.059.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437107002105)
Abstract: In this paper, Chinese character networks are modelled using complex networks theory. We analyze statistical properties of the networks and find that character networks also display two important features as other real networks, i.e., small-world feature and the non-Poisson distribution. These results indicate that the discovered features of Chinese character structure reflect the combinatorial nature of Chinese characters. We also simulate the formation of Chinese phono-semantic characters using bipartite graph theory. The bipartite graph model generates non-Poisson distributions and disassortative mixing as the empirical networks, which effectively explain the origin and formation of phono-semantic characters.
Keywords: Complex networks; Bipartite graph; (dis)Assortative mixing

Henrique F. de Arruda, Vanessa Q. Marinho, Luciano da F. Costa, Diego R. Amancio,
Paragraph-based representation of texts: A complex networks approach,
Information Processing & Management,
Volume 56, Issue 3,
2019,
Pages 479-494,
ISSN 0306-4573,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2018.12.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457318305211)
Abstract: An interesting model to represent texts as a graph (also called network) is the word adjacency (co-occurrence) representation, which is known to capture mainly syntactical features of texts. In this study, we propose a novel network model, which is based on the similarity between the content of the paragraphs of the text. By considering this representation, we characterized the networks with respect to measurements developed in the network science area. We characterized these measurements according to their properties regarding their ability to discriminate between real and shuffled texts, and to capture information regarding the content similarity of chunks of text. In order to compare the results with a more sophisticated approach, we employed a methodology based on word2vec. When comparing real and shuffled texts, the results revealed that real texts tend to have a more well-defined community structure. This characteristic can be related to the organization of subjects in real texts. The network-based measurements that were found to be able to discriminate real from shuffled texts were used as features in a classifier. As a result, the obtained accuracy was 98.72%. In order to compare with a different methodology, we used doc2vec-based features in the classifier, yielding an accuracy rate of 70.8%. The proposed network-based features were employed to analyze the Voynich manuscript, which was found to be compatible with real texts according to the considered characteristics.
Keywords: Network science; Complex networks; Language networks; Document classification; Text networks

Yutaka Tachimori, Hiroaki Iwanaga, Takashi Tahara,
The networks from medical knowledge and clinical practice have small-world, scale-free, and hierarchical features,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 392, Issue 23,
2013,
Pages 6084-6089,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2013.07.047.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437113006572)
Abstract: Here, we constructed and analyzed a network (henceforth, “medical knowledge network”) derived from a commonly used medical text. We show that this medical knowledge network has small-world, scale-free, and hierarchical features. We then constructed a network from data from a hospital information system that reflected actual clinical practice and found that this network also had small-world, scale-free, and hierarchical features. Moreover, we found that both the diagnosis frequency distribution of the hospital network and the diagnosis degree distribution of the medical knowledge network obeyed a similar power law. These findings suggest that the structure of clinical practice may emerge from the mutual influence of medical knowledge and clinical practice, and that the analysis of a medical knowledge network may facilitate the investigation of the characteristics of medical practice.
Keywords: Small-world; Scale-free; Complex network; Natural language; Medical knowledge

Juan Pablo Cárdenas, Iván González, Gerardo Vidal, Miguel Angel Fuentes,
Does network complexity help organize Babel’s library?,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 447,
2016,
Pages 188-198,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2015.12.031.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437115010584)
Abstract: In this work we show that global topological properties of co-occurrent word networks constructed from texts, seem to be the fingerprint of meaningful sentences. We observe that many statistical properties of these networks depend on the frequency of words, however, others seem to be strictly determined by the grammar. Our results suggest that seems to be a lower bound of sense that depends on the correlation between mean word connectivity and word connectivity correlation. This property, in addition to being only present in meaningful texts, and absent in, until now, not decoded texts such as the Voynich manuscript, would also be exclusive for natural languages, allowing us to discriminate between these and formal texts.
Keywords: Voynich manuscript; Complex networks; Word networks; Quantitative linguistics

Edilson A. Corrêa, Alneu A. Lopes, Diego R. Amancio,
Word sense disambiguation: A complex network approach,
Information Sciences,
Volumes 442–443,
2018,
Pages 103-113,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2018.02.047.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025518301300)
Abstract: The word sense disambiguation (WSD) task aims at identifying the meaning of words in a given context for specific words conveying multiple meanings. This task plays a prominent role in a myriad of real world applications, such as machine translation, word processing and information retrieval. Recently, concepts and methods of complex networks have been employed to tackle this task by representing words as nodes, which are connected if they are semantically similar. Despite the increasingly number of studies carried out with such models, most of them use networks just to represent the data, while the pattern recognition performed on the attribute space is performed using traditional learning techniques. In other words, the structural relationships between words have not been explicitly used in the pattern recognition process. In addition, only a few investigations have probed the suitability of representations based on bipartite networks and graphs (bigraphs) for the problem, as many approaches consider all possible links between words. In this context, we assess the relevance of a bipartite network model representing both feature words (i.e. the words characterizing the context) and target (ambiguous) words to solve ambiguities in written texts. Here, we focus on semantical relationships between these two type of words, disregarding relationships between feature words. The adopted method not only serves to represent texts as graphs, but also constructs a structure on which the discrimination of senses is accomplished. Our results revealed that the adopted learning algorithm in such bipartite networks provides excellent results mostly when local features are employed to characterize the context. Surprisingly, our method even outperformed the support vector machine algorithm in particular cases, with the advantage of being robust even if a small training dataset is available. Taken together, the results obtained here show that the representation/classification used for the WSD problem might be useful to improve the semantical characterization of written texts without the use of deep linguistic information.
Keywords: Complex networks; Network science; Text classification; Bipartite graphs; Bipartite networks; Word sense disambiguation

Muskan Garg, Mukesh Kumar,
The structure of word co-occurrence network for microblogs,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 512,
2018,
Pages 698-720,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2018.08.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437118309361)
Abstract: The study of structure and dynamics of complex networks is seeking attention of academic researchers and practitioners in recent years. Although Word Co-occurrence Networks (WCN) have been studied for different languages, yet there is the need to study the structure of WCN for microblogs due to the presence of ill-formed and unstructured data. In this research article, existing WCN based applications have been explored and microblog WCN have been analysed for multiple key parameters to uncover the hidden patterns. The key parameters studied for microblogs WCN are scale-free property, small world feature, hierarchical organization, assortativity and spectral analysis. The twitter FSD dataset has been used for experimental results and evaluation. Different mathematical, statistical and graphical interpretations proved that the microblog WCN are different from the WCN of traditional well-formed text. The robustness of the key parameters of microblogs WCN have been explored for keyphrase extraction from domain specific set of microblogs. The baseline methods used for comparisons are TextRank, TopicRank, and NErank. Extensive experiments over standard public dataset proved that the proposed keyphrase extraction technique outperforms the existing techniques in terms of precision, recall, F-measure, and ROUGE scores.
Keywords: Word co-occurrence network; Microblog analysis; Small world network; Scale-free network; Keyphrase extraction; BArank

Yu’e Wu, Zhipeng Zhang, Shuhua Chang,
Effect of self-interaction on the evolution of cooperation in complex topologies,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 481,
2017,
Pages 191-197,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2017.04.030.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437117303333)
Abstract: Self-interaction, as a significant mechanism explaining the evolution of cooperation, has attracted great attention both theoretically and experimentally. In this text, we consider a new self-interaction mechanism in the two typical pairwise models including the prisoner’s dilemma and the snowdrift games, where the cooperative agents will gain extra bonus for their selfless behavior. We find that under the mechanism the collective cooperation is elevated to a very high level especially after adopting the finite population analogue of replicator dynamics for evolution. The robustness of the new mechanism is tested for different complex topologies for the prisoner’s dilemma game. All the presented results demonstrate that the enhancement effects are independent of the structure of the applied spatial networks and the potential evolutionary games, and thus showing a high degree of universality. Our conclusions might shed light on the understanding of the evolution of cooperation in the real world.
Keywords: Cooperation; Prisoner’s dilemma; Self-interaction; Complex network

Swagata Duari, Vasudha Bhatnagar,
Complex Network based Supervised Keyword Extractor,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 140,
2020,
112876,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2019.112876.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S095741741930586X)
Abstract: In this paper, we present a supervised framework for automatic keyword extraction from single document. We model the text as complex network, and construct the feature set by extracting select node properties from it. Several node properties have been exploited by unsupervised, graph-based keyword extraction methods to discriminate keywords from non-keywords. We exploit the complex interplay of node properties to design a supervised keyword extraction method. The training set is created from the feature set by assigning a label to each candidate keyword depending on whether the candidate is listed as a gold-standard keyword or not. Since the number of keywords in a document is much less than non-keywords, the curated training set is naturally imbalanced. We train a binary classifier to predict keywords after balancing the training set. The model is trained using two public datasets from scientific domain and tested using three unseen scientific corpora and one news corpus. Comparative study of the results with several recent keyword and keyphrase extraction methods establishes that the proposed method performs better in most cases. This substantiates our claim that graph-theoretic properties of words are effective discriminators between keywords and non-keywords. We support our argument by showing that the improved performance of the proposed method is statistically significant for all datasets. We also evaluate the effectiveness of the pre-trained model on Hindi and Assamese language documents. We observe that the model performs equally well for the cross-language text even though it was trained only on English language documents. This shows that the proposed method is independent of the domain, collection, and language of the training corpora.
Keywords: Supervised keyword extraction; Complex network; Graph-theoretic node properties; Text graph.

Caihong Liu, Chonghui Guo,
STCCD: Semantic trajectory clustering based on community detection in networks,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 162,
2020,
113689,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2020.113689.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417420305133)
Abstract: Most of traditional trajectory clustering algorithms often cluster similar trajectories from a temporal or spatial perspective. One weak point is that the semantic relationship between the trajectories is ignored. In some cases, trajectories with spatio-temporal similarities may be semantically related, and the negligence of semantic information may result in unreasonable trajectory clustering results. In addition, the existing semantic trajectory clustering algorithms only consider the local semantic relationship between adjacent spatio-temporal trajectories, and the overall global semantic relationship between trajectories is still unknown. Considering the disadvantages of the current trajectory clustering methods, we proposed a novel algorithm for semantic trajectory clustering based on community detection (STCCD) in networks, which can better measure the semantic similarity of trajectories and capture global relationship among trajectories from the perspective of the network, and can get better trajectory clustering results compared to some traditional and recently proposed methods. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method can effectively mine the trajectory clustering information and related knowledge from the semantic trajectory data.
Keywords: Trajectory clustering; Trajectory similarity; Complex network; Community detection

Qingju Jiao, Yuanyuan Jin, Yongge Liu, Shengwei Han, Guoying Liu, Nan Wang, Bang Li, Feng Gao,
Module structure detection of oracle characters with similar semantics,
Alexandria Engineering Journal,
Volume 60, Issue 5,
2021,
Pages 4819-4828,
ISSN 1110-0168,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aej.2021.03.072.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1110016821002349)
Abstract: It is a highly productive approach to analyze human languages with complex networks, because the language network can effectively predict unknown features. One of the classical features in complex networks is module (or community) structure, which features dense intra-group connections and sparse inter-group connections. This work aims to identify oracle characters, the oldest characters in China, with similar semantic through module structure detection because about two-thirds of all oracle characters remain unknown. Firstly, two oracle character networks are constructed based on the context and shape of oracle rubbings and characters. Then, three module structure detection methods are employed to mine the modules from the oracle character networks. Through the experiments on the oracle character networks, three significant results are obtained. The first one is that oracle characters (or oracle variant characters) with similar semantics can be discovered by module structure, and the second one is that context and shape are of equal importance to the semantic formation of oracle characters. The last result is that modules have strong local topology of the network.
Keywords: Complex network; Module structure; Oracle character; Semantics

Camilo Akimushkin, Diego R. Amancio, Osvaldo N. Oliveira,
On the role of words in the network structure of texts: Application to authorship attribution,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 495,
2018,
Pages 49-58,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2017.12.054.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437117312979)
Abstract: Well-established automatic analyses of texts mainly consider frequencies of linguistic units, e.g. letters, words, and bigrams. In a recent, alternative approach, medium and large-scale text structures were used in opposition to the belief that text structure is dominated by the language features. In this paper, we introduce a generalized similarity measure to compare texts which accounts for both the network structure of texts and the role of individual words in the networks. The similarity measure is used for authorship attribution of three collections of books, each composed of 8 authors and 10 books per author. High accuracy rates were obtained with typical values between 90% and 98.75%, much higher than with the traditional term frequency-inverse document frequency (tf-idf) approach for the same collections. These accuracies are also higher than those obtained solely with the topology of networks. We conclude that the different properties of specific words on the macroscopic scale structure of a whole text are as relevant as their frequency of appearance; conversely, considering the identity of nodes brings further knowledge about a piece of text represented as a network.
Keywords: Complex networks; Word semantics; Authorship attribution; Similarity measures; Burstiness; Intermittency

Alexandru Topirceanu, Alexandra Duma, Mihai Udrescu,
Uncovering the fingerprint of online social networks using a network motif based approach,
Computer Communications,
Volume 73, Part B,
2016,
Pages 167-175,
ISSN 0140-3664,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2015.07.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366415002406)
Abstract: Complex networks facilitate the understanding of natural and man-made processes and are classified based on the concepts they model: biological, technological, social or semantic. The relevant subgraphs in these networks, called network motifs, are demonstrated to show core aspects of network functionality and can be used to analyze complex networks based on their topological fingerprint. We propose a novel approach of classifying social networks based on their topological aspects using motifs. As such, we define the classifiers for regular, random, small-world and scale-free topologies, and then apply this classification on empirical networks. We then show how our study brings a new perspective on differentiating between online social networks like Facebook, Twitter and Google Plus based on the distribution of network motifs over the fundamental topology classes. Characteristic patterns of motifs are obtained for each of the analyzed online networks and are used to better explain the functional properties behind how people interact online and to define classifiers capable of mapping any online network to a set of topological-communicational properties.
Keywords: Online social networks; Complex network topologies; Network motifs; Classification; Similarity

Yongping Du, Wenyang Guo, Jingxuan Liu, Changqing Yao,
Classification by multi-semantic meta path and active weight learning in heterogeneous information networks,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 123,
2019,
Pages 227-236,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2019.01.044.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417419300508)
Abstract: Heterogeneous information network (HIN) is a kind of large-scale network which contains different types of objects and complex links. It is distinguished from a homogenous network for its heterogeneity of objects represented as nodes and complexity of links, which also makes the object classification more difficult. A meta-path can denote the relationship between nodes in HINs, and the path information can be enriched by extracting jump-paths. Based on this idea, the problem of data sparseness can be alleviated effectively. As multiple meta-paths represent different semantics, we propose an active weight learning method for each type, which aims to maximize the weight of meta-path with strong correlation and lower the weight if the correlation is weak. The feature matrix based on the meta-path is constructed and the Random Forest classifier is trained to implement the node classification in HINs. The experimental results show that our method achieves better performance in the complex network by using the fewer labeled data. The active learning strategy is effective for identifying objects to label for training.
Keywords: Classification; Meta-path; Heterogeneous information network; Active weight learning; Similarity matrix

Yuan Gao, Maoguo Gong, Yu Xie, Hua Zhong,
Community-oriented attributed network embedding,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 193,
2020,
105418,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2019.105418.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705119306513)
Abstract: Network embedding aims to map vertices in a complex network into a continuous low-dimensional vector space. Meanwhile, the original network structure and inherent properties must be preserved. Most of the existing methods merely focus on preserving local structural features of vertices, whereas they largely ignore the community patterns and rich attribute information. For example, the title of papers in an academic citation network could imply their research directions, which are potentially valuable in seeking more meaningful representations of these papers. In this paper, we propose a Community-oriented Attributed Network Embedding (COANE) framework, which can smoothly incorporate the community information and text contents of vertices into network embedding. We design a margin-based random walk procedure on the network coupled with flexible margins among communities, which limit the scope of random walks. Inspired by the analogy between vertex sequences and documents, the statistical topic model is adopted to extract community features in the network. Furthermore, COANE integrates textual semantics into representations through the topic model while preserving their structural correlations. Experiments on real-world networks indicate that our proposed method outperforms six state-of-the-art network embedding approaches on network visualization, vertex classification and link prediction.
Keywords: Representation learning; Attributed network embedding (ANE); Community detection; Topic model

Dongyang Yan, Keping Li, Jingjing Ye,
Correlation analysis of short text based on network model,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 531,
2019,
121728,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2019.121728.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437119309860)
Abstract: Correlation of words in the text is of great importance in text analysis like text retrieval, keywords extraction, and text clustering. For short text, because of the limited information of text content, it is difficult to catch the correlation well among words. In this paper, we propose an algorithm based on the complex network to calculate the correlation of words in short texts. A new variable Edge-degree is proposed and used in studying the network model of texts. By using fluctuation analysis, we give the condition that Edge-degree correlation between words exists beyond nearest neighbors. Further analysis shows that numerical results of the fluctuation function of Edge-degree act a power law distribution and that the scaling exponent diverges at a long distance under the finite size effect and varies in different texts. The fluctuation function separates the words in a text into different clusters, and this property is used to measure inner-correlation of different words. Hub nodes act a significant influence on the long-range Edge-degree correlation through changing the linear trend of the fluctuation function in a log–log plot.
Keywords: Long-range correlation; Network model; Short text; Fluctuation analysis

Diego Raphael Amancio, Osvaldo Novais Oliveira, Luciano da Fontoura Costa,
Three-feature model to reproduce the topology of citation networks and the effects from authors’ visibility on their h-index,
Journal of Informetrics,
Volume 6, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 427-434,
ISSN 1751-1577,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joi.2012.02.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1751157712000211)
Abstract: Various factors are believed to govern the selection of references in citation networks, but a precise, quantitative determination of their importance has remained elusive. In this paper, we show that three factors can account for the referencing pattern of citation networks for two topics, namely “graphenes” and “complex networks”, thus allowing one to reproduce the topological features of the networks built with papers being the nodes and the edges established by citations. The most relevant factor was content similarity, while the other two – in-degree (i.e. citation counts) and age of publication – had varying importance depending on the topic studied. This dependence indicates that additional factors could play a role. Indeed, by intuition one should expect the reputation (or visibility) of authors and/or institutions to affect the referencing pattern, and this is only indirectly considered via the in-degree that should correlate with such reputation. Because information on reputation is not readily available, we simulated its effect on artificial citation networks considering two communities with distinct fitness (visibility) parameters. One community was assumed to have twice the fitness value of the other, which amounts to a double probability for a paper being cited. While the h-index for authors in the community with larger fitness evolved with time with slightly higher values than for the control network (no fitness considered), a drastic effect was noted for the community with smaller fitness.
Keywords: Scientometry; h-Index; Citation networks; Complex networks; Network model

Mariela Rico, María Laura Caliusco, Omar Chiotti, María Rosa Galli,
OntoQualitas: A framework for ontology quality assessment in information interchanges between heterogeneous systems,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 65, Issue 9,
2014,
Pages 1291-1300,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2014.07.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361514001456)
Abstract: Nowadays, Internet technologies and standards are being systematically used by enterprises as tools to provide an infrastructure to connect people, enterprises, and applications they are using. In such complex networked enterprises, it is increasingly challenging to interchange, share, and manage internal and external digital information. In this context, to achieve interoperability between information systems is a challenging task. In order to solve the interoperability problem at semantic level, several ontology-based approaches have emerged. Although methodologies, methods, techniques, and tools to support the ontology building process were proposed, there are no mature models to measure this process, and the quality of implemented ontologies remains a major concern. This paper presents a framework, OntoQualitas, for evaluating the quality of an ontology whose purpose is the information interchange between different contexts. OntoQualitas includes previous and new measures to evaluate the ontology considering its specific purpose. Additionally, an empirical validation of OntoQualitas is presented.
Keywords: Ontology evaluation; Information interchange; Measurement; Ontology requirement

Sanda Martinčić-Ipšić, Domagoj Margan, Ana Meštrović,
Multilayer network of language: A unified framework for structural analysis of linguistic subsystems,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 457,
2016,
Pages 117-128,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.03.082.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437116300802)
Abstract: Recently, the focus of complex networks’ research has shifted from the analysis of isolated properties of a system toward a more realistic modeling of multiple phenomena — multilayer networks. Motivated by the prosperity of multilayer approach in social, transport or trade systems, we introduce the multilayer networks for language. The multilayer network of language is a unified framework for modeling linguistic subsystems and their structural properties enabling the exploration of their mutual interactions. Various aspects of natural language systems can be represented as complex networks, whose vertices depict linguistic units, while links model their relations. The multilayer network of language is defined by three aspects: the network construction principle, the linguistic subsystem and the language of interest. More precisely, we construct a word-level (syntax and co-occurrence) and a subword-level (syllables and graphemes) network layers, from four variations of original text (in the modeled language). The analysis and comparison of layers at the word and subword-levels are employed in order to determine the mechanism of the structural influences between linguistic units and subsystems. The obtained results suggest that there are substantial differences between the networks’ structures of different language subsystems, which are hidden during the exploration of an isolated layer. The word-level layers share structural properties regardless of the language (e.g. Croatian or English), while the syllabic subword-level expresses more language dependent structural properties. The preserved weighted overlap quantifies the similarity of word-level layers in weighted and directed networks. Moreover, the analysis of motifs reveals a close topological structure of the syntactic and syllabic layers for both languages. The findings corroborate that the multilayer network framework is a powerful, consistent and systematic approach to model several linguistic subsystems simultaneously and hence to provide a more unified view on language.
Keywords: Complex networks; Multilayer complex networks; Language networks; Linguistic networks; Language subsystems

Lucas Antiqueira, Osvaldo N. Oliveira, Luciano da Fontoura Costa, Maria das Graças Volpe Nunes,
A complex network approach to text summarization,
Information Sciences,
Volume 179, Issue 5,
2009,
Pages 584-599,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2008.10.032.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025508004520)
Abstract: Automatic summarization of texts is now crucial for several information retrieval tasks owing to the huge amount of information available in digital media, which has increased the demand for simple, language-independent extractive summarization strategies. In this paper, we employ concepts and metrics of complex networks to select sentences for an extractive summary. The graph or network representing one piece of text consists of nodes corresponding to sentences, while edges connect sentences that share common meaningful nouns. Because various metrics could be used, we developed a set of 14 summarizers, generically referred to as CN-Summ, employing network concepts such as node degree, length of shortest paths, d-rings and k-cores. An additional summarizer was created which selects the highest ranked sentences in the 14 systems, as in a voting system. When applied to a corpus of Brazilian Portuguese texts, some CN-Summ versions performed better than summarizers that do not employ deep linguistic knowledge, with results comparable to state-of-the-art summarizers based on expensive linguistic resources. The use of complex networks to represent texts appears therefore as suitable for automatic summarization, consistent with the belief that the metrics of such networks may capture important text features.
Keywords: Automatic summarization; Complex networks; Network measurements; Sentence extraction; Summary informativeness

Zunxiang Qiu, Quanlong Liu, Xinchun Li, Jinjia Zhang, Yueqian Zhang,
Construction and analysis of a coal mine accident causation network based on text mining,
Process Safety and Environmental Protection,
Volume 153,
2021,
Pages 320-328,
ISSN 0957-5820,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psep.2021.07.032.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957582021004031)
Abstract: It is important to systematically identify the contributing factors in coal mine accidents from a large-scale analysis of accident reports. However, previous scholars have mainly used human analysis methods to define accident-causing factors, leading to incomplete and biased cause checklists due to personal experience and knowledge. Furthermore, a data-driven method is needed to quantify the importance of each factor and clarify the mechanism of different types of accidents. Considering these, this study creatively combined text mining technology and a complex network to explore the coal mine accident-causing mechanism. Through the text mining of 307 accident reports, 52 main accident-causing factors were identified, and a coal mine accident causation network was constructed based on the strong association rules among factors. Second, eight core factors and their associated sets, as well as seven critical links for different accident types, were clarified through network centrality analysis and accident path analysis. This study shows that regulatory authority is the most influential level of accident causation, gas accidents are the most easily triggered accident type, a lack of effective mechanism for safety supervision→failure to arrange full-time safety inspectors to follow the shift→lack of serious and thorough on-site hidden danger investigations→inadequate anti-surge measures are the key links in gas accident causation. This study contributes new perspectives on identifying contributing factors and their complex interaction mechanisms from accident report data for practical applications in risk analysis and accident prevention.
Keywords: Coal mine safety; Text mining technology; Complex network theory; Accident causation; Risk analysis

Shin-Guang Chen, Yi-Kuei Lin,
On performance evaluation of ERP systems with fuzzy mathematics,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 36, Issue 3, Part 2,
2009,
Pages 6362-6367,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2008.08.078.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417408005514)
Abstract: An enterprise resource planning (ERP) system is a complex network composed of various business processes. This paper proposes a method based on stochastic-flow network model to evaluate the performance of an ERP system depending upon the fuzzy linguistic results of the ERP examination of the users involved. The nodes in the network denote the persons responsible for the business tasks during the processes. The arcs between nodes denote the process precedence relationships in the ERP system. When the process starts, the documents are initiated from the source node to its succeeding nodes. Finally, the documents are released in the destination node. Thus, the performance of an ERP system is related to the document flow under the network. The failure of an ERP system is therefore described as in the condition that the flow of the system is under the acceptable level d. By using the fuzzy linguistic results of the ERP examination of the users, we propose a fuzzy linguistic performance index, defuzzified from the probability of maximal flow not less than d, to evaluate the performance of an ERP system. An algorithm is subsequently proposed to generate the performance index, which can be used to assess the system performance either before or after the system going live.
Keywords: Enterprise resource planning; Stochastic-flow network; Fuzzy mathematics; System reliability; Minimal path

Andrei Snarskii, Dmytro Lande, Dmytro Manko,
A new method (K-method) of calculating the mutual influence of nodes indirected weight complex networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 526,
2019,
120899,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2019.04.135.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437119304868)
Abstract: New method (the K-method) for calculation of characteristics of complex networks is proposed. The method is based on transformation of the initial network and subsequent application of the Kirchhoff rules. The field of application of the method for sparse networks (in which nodes have a cause–effect character of the so-called ”cognitive maps”) is proposed. Two new characteristics of concept nodes (”pressure” and ”influence”) having a semantic interpretation are proposed. The advantages of the proposed K-method include its computational simplicity (in comparison with other known algorithms) comparable with the task of enumerating subgraphs for sparse networks of relatively small size (in practice — several hundred nodes). At the same time, the results obtained with the help of the K-method for a real network are correlating well enough with the results obtained using the impulse method.
Keywords: Complex networks; K-method; Mutual influence; Nodes ranking

Marwa Ben M’barek, Sana Ben Hmida, Amel Borgi, Marta Rukoz,
GA-PPI-Net Approach vs Analytical Approaches for Community Detection in PPI Networks,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 192,
2021,
Pages 903-912,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2021.08.093.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050921015817)
Abstract: Community detection has become an important research direction for data mining in complex networks. It aims to identify topo-logical structures and discover patterns in complex networks, which presents an important problem of great significance. Prediction of communities from Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) networks is important problem in system biology as they control different cellular functions. These networks represent a set of proteins that collaborate at the same cellular function. With the increment of genome-scale protein–protein interaction data for different species, various computational methods focus on identifying protein community from PPI networks. In this paper, we are interested in evaluating the proposed genetic algorithm GA-PPI-Net and three clustering methods for community detection. In the computational tests carried out in this work, the proposed genetic algorithm achieved excellent results to detect existing or even new communities from PPI networks.
Keywords: Community detection; Genetic Algorithm; Clustering; Protein-protein interaction networks; Semantic Similarity

Ali Mehri, Amir H. Darooneh, Ashrafalsadat Shariati,
The complex networks approach for authorship attribution of books,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 391, Issue 7,
2012,
Pages 2429-2437,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2011.12.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437111009083)
Abstract: Authorship analysis by means of textual features is an important task in linguistic studies. We employ complex networks theory to tackle this disputed problem. In this work, we focus on some measurable quantities of word co-occurrence network of each book for authorship characterization. Based on the network features, attribution probability is defined for authorship identification. Furthermore, two scaling exponents, q-parameter and α-exponent, are combined to classify personal writing style with acceptable high resolution power. The q-parameter, generally known as the nonextensivity measure, is calculated for degree distribution and the α-exponent comes from a power law relationship between number of links and number of nodes in the co-occurrence network constructed for different books written by each author. The applicability of the presented method is evaluated in an experiment with thirty six books of five Persian litterateurs. Our results show high accuracy rate in authorship attribution.
Keywords: Complex systems; Computational linguistics; Nonextensive statistical mechanics; Authorship attribution

L. Liu, W.L. Zuo, T. Peng,
Detecting outlier pairs in complex network based on link structure and semantic relationship,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 69,
2017,
Pages 40-49,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2016.10.026.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417416305577)
Abstract: In this paper, we propose an outlier pair detection method, called LSOutPair, which discovers the vast differences between link structure and semantic relationship. LSOutPair addresses three important challenges: (1) how can we measure the target object's link similarity among multi-typed objects and multi-typed relations? (2) how can we measure the semantic similarity using the short texts? (3) how can we find the objects’ maximum differences between link structure and semantic relationship? To tackle these challenges, LSOutPair applies three main techniques: (1) two matrices are used to store link similarity and semantic similarity, (2) a k-step index algorithm, which calculates the term weighting for each object, (3) applying the linear transformation of Frobenius norm to matrices can obtain the top-K outlier pairs. LSOutPair considers link and semantics in complex network simultaneously, which is a new attempt in data mining. Substantial experiments show that LSOutPair is very effective for outlier pair detection.
Keywords: Outlier pair detection; Complex network; Link structure; Semantic relationship; K-step index

Jia Xiao, Xin Li, Shanzhi Chen, Yan Wang, Jiaxing Han, Zhili Zhou,
Complex network measurement and optimization of Chinese domestic movies with internet of things technology,
Computers & Electrical Engineering,
Volume 66,
2018,
Pages 246-259,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2017.07.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790617315720)
Abstract: The market performance prediction of domestic motion picture is an important problem that is worthy of study. In this paper, by incorporating Chinese fine-grained semantic features, we propose a method of community detection and genetic optimization especially for Chinese domestic films. These semantic features, also named as gene elements, are used as nodes to construct a movie complex network. Through leveraging the influence of the node both in the whole network and in the internal community, four unique communities are revealed for successful Chinese movies. Then the Genetic Algorithm (GA) with a proposed novel fitness function is used to obtain the optimal cluster of gene elements. For the other operations in GA (i.e. initialization, selection, crossover and mutation), the parameters are also be optimized by a distinctive evaluation method. Finally, the experiments on the data of Chinese motion pictures in 2016 demonstrate the efficacy and accuracy of the overall system.
Keywords: Semantic feature; Movie complex network; Community detection; Genetic algorithm

Guilherme Alberto Wachs-Lopes, Paulo Sergio Rodrigues,
Analyzing natural human language from the point of view of dynamic of a complex network,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 45,
2016,
Pages 8-22,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2015.09.020.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417415006429)
Abstract: With increasing amount of information, mainly due to the explosive growth of Internet, the demand for applications of automatic text analysis has also grown. One of the tools that has increased in importance in the understanding of problems related to this area are complex networks. This tool merges graph theory and statistical methods for modeling important problems. In several research fields, complex networks are studied from the various points of view, such as: topology of networks, extraction of physical features and statistics, specific applications, comparison of metrics and study of physical phenomena. Linguistic is one area that has received great attention, particularly due to its close relationship with issues arising from the emergence of large text databases. Thus, many studies have emerged for modeling of complex networks in this area, increasing the demand for efficient algorithms for feature extraction, network dynamic observation and comparison of behavior for different types of languages. Some works for specific languages such as English, Chinese, French, Spanish, Russian and Arabic, have discussed the semantic aspects of these languages. On the other hand, as an important feature of a network we can highlight the computation of average clustering coefficient. This measure has a physical impact on the network topology studies and consequently on the conclusions about the semantics of a language. However its computational time is of O(n3), making its computing prohibitive for large current databases. This paper presents as main contribution a modeling of two complex networks: the first one, in English, is constructed from a specific medical database; the second, in Portuguese, from a journalistic manually annotated database. Our paper then presents the study of the dynamics of these two networks. We show their small-world behavior and the influence of hubs, suggesting that these databases have a high degree of Modularity, indicating specific contexts of words. Also, a method for efficient clustering coefficient computation is presented, and can be applied to large current databases. Other features such as fraction of reciprocal connections and average connection density are also calculated and discussed for both networks.
Keywords: Complex networks; Physical measures; Clustering coefficient; Textual information retrieval

Marjorie Collins, Jeffrey Coney,
Interhemispheric Communication Is Via Direct Connections,
Brain and Language,
Volume 64, Issue 1,
1998,
Pages 28-52,
ISSN 0093-934X,
https://doi.org/10.1006/brln.1998.1954.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0093934X9891954X)
Abstract: Two priming experiments, using normal university students as subjects, independently projected low imagery primes and concrete target words to the left or right visual fields (LVF or RVF) to examine the merits of three spreading activation models of interhemispheric communication: (i) callosal relay of a semantically encoded prime; (ii) transfer of products activated as a result of the spread of activation; and (iii) direct connections between the hemispheres. The first experiment temporally separated pairs by a stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) of 250 ms and obtained strong support for the direct connections model. Priming effects were obtained only when the prime was projected to the RVF and the target to the LVF. The pattern of priming effects suggested that low imagery words projected to the left hemisphere can activate concrete associates in the right hemisphere via direct callosal connections between the two. In the second experiment, the SOA was increased to 450 ms. This time, RVF–RVF priming was obtained along with RVF–LVF priming. The findings are interpreted within a modification of Bleasdale's (1987) framework, where abstract/low imagery words and concrete/high imagery words are represented in separate subsystems in the left hemisphere lexicon. Support was also found for the view that the left hemisphere is comprised of a complex network of abstract and concrete words, while the right hemisphere operates as a subsidiary word processor, subserving linguistic processing with a limited, special purpose lexicon comprised of associative connections between concrete, imageable words (e.g., Zaidel, 1983a; Bradshaw, 1980). Interhemispheric communication in the priming procedure appears to occur at the semantic level, via direct connections between the hemispheres.

Yu Xin, Jing Yang, Zhi-Qiang Xie, Jian-Pei Zhang,
An overlapping semantic community detection algorithm base on the ARTs multiple sampling models,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 42, Issue 7,
2015,
Pages 3420-3432,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2014.11.029.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417414007155)
Abstract: Since the Semantic Social Network (SSN) is a new kind of complex networks, the traditional community detection algorithms require giving the number of the communities and could not detect the overlapping communities. To solve this problem, we propose improving multiple sampling models ARTs, consisting of ART, LART, ARTF and LARTF, sampling the textual information specific to node, link, node field, and link field correspondingly. The proposed ARTs models separate the semantic community detection into context sampling and communities detecting stage. After the context sampling, the quantized semantic coordinate is allocated to each sampling element, by which the cohesion for each sampling field can be established, avoiding the presetting of the number of communities. As the ARTs models are not easy to convergence, we explore the multiple sampling to accelerate the convergence, and the parameters of ARTs are analyzed by experimental analysis. In evaluation aspect, some traditional evaluation models are extended for semantic community measurement. Finally, efficiency of ARTs is verified by experiment.
Keywords: Semantic Social Network; Community detection; Overlapping communities; Multiple sampling

Herman Masindano Wandabwa, M. Asif Naeem, Farhaan Mirza, Russel Pears,
Topical affinity in short text microblogs,
Information Systems,
Volume 96,
2021,
101662,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2020.101662.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030643792030123X)
Abstract: Knowledge-based applications like recommender systems in social networks are powered by complex network of social discussions and user connections. Short text microblog platforms like Twitter are powerful in this aspect due to their real-time content dissemination as well as having a complex mesh of user connections. For example, users on Twitter tend to consume certain content to a greater or less extent depending on their interests over time. Quantifying this degree of content consumption in certain topics is an arduous task. This is further compounded by the amount of digital information that such platforms generate at any given time. Formulation of personalized user profiles based on user interests over time and friendship network is thus a problem. Therefore, user profiling based on their interests is important for personalized third-party content recommendations on the platform. In this paper we address this problem by presenting our solution in a two-step process:- (i) Firstly, we compute users’ Degree of Interest (DoI) towards a certain topic based on the overall users’ affinity towards that topic. (ii) Secondly, we affirm this DoI by correlating it to their friendship network. Furthermore, we describe our model for DoI computation and follow-back recommendation system by learning a low-dimensional vector representation of users and their disseminated content. This representation is used to train models for prediction of correct cluster classifications. In our experiments, we use a Twitter dataset to validate our approach by computing degrees of interest for certain test users in three diverse and generic topics. Experimental results show the effectiveness of our approach in the extraction of intra-user interests and better accuracy in follow-back recommendations with diversities in the topics.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Short text mining; Taste profiling; Data mining; Neural networks; Social web

Bo Huang, Shusheng Zhang, Rui Huang, Xiuling Li, Yajun Zhang, Jiachen Liang,
A complex network based NC process skeleton extraction approach,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 113,
2019,
103142,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2019.103142.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361519305445)
Abstract: Process skeleton can effectively reflect the macro process constraints and key features of parts, which has rich reuse value. However, neither the automatic extraction of common reusable structures at geometric level nor the discovery of typical process routes at semantic level can effectively support the reuse of macro processes. To counter this problem, a novel complex network based NC process skeleton extraction approach is proposed. First, the characteristics for a good process skeleton are analyzed and the structured model for representing typical macro process based on CAM model data is elaborated. Then, given a set of structured NC machining process instances, the corresponding extraction approach is proposed, which includes three important phases: (1) constructing a NC machining process data network by using the machining process instances; (2) analyzing the topological metrics of the process data network to judge the key process element nodes and generating candidate process skeletons; (3) determining the final process skeletons by choosing those candidate process skeletons with moderate granularity and conforming to the specific process. Finally, the experimental results are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach. The presented approach can help smart machines reuse the machining know-how about cutting similar parts so that parameter settings can be updated automatically.
Keywords: Macro process; CAM model; Complex network; Process skeleton; NC process reuse

Thomas Michel,
The Lifeblood of the Cyborg: Or, the shared organism of a modern energy corporation and a small Northern Territory town,
Energy Research & Social Science,
Volume 45,
2018,
Pages 224-234,
ISSN 2214-6296,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.erss.2018.07.033.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214629618308016)
Abstract: The Blacktip gas project, owned by the multinational corporation Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi (ENI) and located near the marginalised, Indigenous-majority town of Wadeye in the Northern Territory of Australia, is the ethnographic setting to explore the connections of energy industry projects in the age of the Anthropocene. At the core of these issues are considerations of how carbon energy industries operate, how these industries are transforming natural and social ecologies, and how the benefits and costs of the sector are circulated. Much of influential research work and government policy tend to frame these considerations within analytical methodologies of “economic development”: despite pockets of public opposition, the presence of energy projects such as Blacktip are largely taken for granted by authorities, and debates are limited to questions around business-state cooperation and wealth generation. As a methodological alternative, I apply Deleuze and Guattari’s concept of the assemblage to analyse the Blacktip project as a complex network that expresses broader social power relations. I suggest the disrupting image of the cyborg – as the colonising, techno-capitalist blend of human and computer, with carbon-based energy as its lifeblood – as a modern-day assemblage that offers a new method for understanding modern energy cycles, in particular how they are structured by contemporary carbon energy industry corporations. I conclude by arguing that if dominant, taken-for-granted discourses around the benefits of projects such as Blacktip are critically challenged by the (albeit limited) analytical device of the cyborg, social and ecological alternatives can be more openly imagined.
Keywords: Cyborg; Techno-capitalism; Northern territory; Assemblage

James R. Ashford, Liam D. Turner, Roger M. Whitaker, Alun Preece, Diane Felmlee,
Understanding the characteristics of COVID-19 misinformation communities through graphlet analysis,
Online Social Networks and Media,
Volume 27,
2022,
100178,
ISSN 2468-6964,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.osnem.2021.100178.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2468696421000586)
Abstract: Online social networks serve as a convenient way to connect, share, and promote content with others. As a result, these networks can be used with malicious intent, causing disruption and harm to public debate through the sharing of misinformation. However, automatically identifying such content through its use of natural language is a significant challenge compared to our solution which uses less computational resources, language-agnostic and without the need for complex semantic analysis. Consequently alternative and complementary approaches are highly valuable. In this paper, we assess content that has the potential for misinformation and focus on patterns of user association with online social media communities (subreddits) in the popular Reddit social media platform, and generate networks of behaviour capturing user interaction with different subreddits. We examine these networks using both global and local metrics, in particular noting the presence of induced substructures (graphlets) assessing 7,876,064 posts from 96,634 users. From subreddits identified as having potential for misinformation, we note that the associated networks have strongly defined local features relating to node degree — these are evident both from analysis of dominant graphlets and degree-related global metrics. We find that these local features support high accuracy classification of subreddits that are categorised as having the potential for misinformation. Consequently we observe that induced local substructures of high degree are fundamental metrics for subreddit classification, and support automatic detection capabilities for online misinformation independent from any particular language.
Keywords: Reddit; COVID-19; Disinformation; Complex networks

Abhik Jana, Animesh Mukherjee, Pawan Goyal,
Network measures: A new paradigm towards reliable novel word sense detection,
Information Processing & Management,
Volume 57, Issue 6,
2020,
102173,
ISSN 0306-4573,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2019.102173.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457319303474)
Abstract: In this era of digitization, with the fast flow of information on the web, words are being used to denote newer meanings. Thus novel sense detection becomes a crucial and challenging task in order to build any natural language processing application which depends on the efficient semantic representation of words. With the recent availability of large amounts of digitized texts, automated analysis of language evolution has become possible. Given corpus from two different time periods, the main focus of our work is to detect the words evolved with a novel sense precisely. We pose this problem as a binary classification task to detect whether a new sense of a target word has emerged. This paper presents a unique proposal based on network features to improve the precision of this task of detecting emerged new sense of a target word. For a candidate word where a new sense has been detected by comparing the sense clusters induced at two different time periods, we further compare the network properties of the subgraphs induced from novel sense clusters across these two time periods. Using the mean fractional change in edge density, structural similarity and average path length as features in a Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier, manual evaluation gives precision values of 0.86 and 0.74 for the task of new sense detection, when tested on 2 distinct time-point pairs, in comparison to the precision values in the range of 0.23-0.32, when the proposed scheme is not used. The outlined method can, therefore, be used as a new post-hoc step to improve the precision of novel word sense detection in a robust and reliable way where the underlying framework uses a graph structure. Another important observation is that even though our proposal is a post-hoc step, it can be used in isolation and that itself results in a very decent performance achieving a precision of 0.54-0.62. Finally, we also show that our method is able to detect well-known historical shifts in 80% cases.
Keywords: Novel sense detection; Distributional thesaurus network; Complex network measures

Alan Valejo, Maria Cristina Ferreira de Oliveira, Geraldo P.R. Filho, Alneu de Andrade Lopes,
Multilevel approach for combinatorial optimization in bipartite network,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 151,
2018,
Pages 45-61,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2018.03.021.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705118301539)
Abstract: Multilevel approaches aim at reducing the cost of a target algorithm over a given network by applying it to a coarsened (or reduced) version of the original network. They have been successfully employed in a variety of problems, most notably community detection. However, current solutions are not directly applicable to bipartite networks and the literature lacks studies that illustrate their application for solving multilevel optimization problems in such networks. This article addresses this gap and introduces a multilevel optimization approach for bipartite networks and the implementation of a general multilevel framework including novel algorithms for coarsening and uncorsening, applicable to a variety of problems. We analyze how the proposed multilevel strategy affects the topological features of bipartite networks and show that a controlled coarsening strategy can preserve properties such as degree and clustering coefficient centralities. The applicability of the general framework is illustrated in two optimization problems, one for solving the Barber’s modularity for community detection and the second for dimensionality reduction in text classification. We show that the solutions thus obtained are statistically equivalent, regarding accuracy, to those of conventional approaches, whilst requiring considerably lower execution times.
Keywords: Complex networks; Bipartite networks; Combinatorial optimization; Meta-heuristic; Multilevel optimization; Large-scale networks

M.G. Campiteli, A.J. Holanda, L.D.H. Soares, P.R.C. Soles, O. Kinouchi,
Lobby index as a network centrality measure,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 392, Issue 21,
2013,
Pages 5511-5515,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2013.06.065.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437113005839)
Abstract: We study the lobby index (l-index for short) as a local node centrality measure for complex networks. The l-index is compared with degree (a local measure), betweenness and Eigenvector centralities (two global measures) in the case of a biological network (Yeast interaction protein–protein network) and a linguistic network (Moby Thesaurus II). In both networks, the l-index has a poor correlation with betweenness but correlates with degree and Eigenvector centralities. Although being local, the l-index carries more information about its neighbors than degree centrality. Also, it requires much less time to compute when compared with Eigenvector centrality. Results show that the l-index produces better results than degree and Eigenvector centrality for ranking purposes.
Keywords: Lobby index; Centrality; Degree; Betweenness; Eigenvector; Hirsch index

Susan George, Hiran H. Lathabai, Thara Prabhakaran, Manoj Changat,
A framework for inventor collaboration recommendation system based on network approach,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 176,
2021,
114833,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2021.114833.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417421002748)
Abstract: Precise and timely information about opportunities for potential collaborations is very vital for the collaboration-intense research environment prevailing in innovation ecosystems. As the identification of suitable inventors for collaboration will be decisive for inventors in different phases of their careers, inventor collaboration recommendation systems are of great importance. Existing recommendation system frameworks for collaboration recommendations for academic authors and inventors are slightly intensive on the usage of link semantics. Like academic collaboration through co-authorship, collaborations of inventors through co-inventorship of patents can be found in almost all industrial areas in various degrees. Network representation of co-inventorship can be used to retrieve many insights that can even be vital for policymaking. In this work, for inventor collaboration recommendations, a minimal link semantics (MLS) approach based framework is built to overcome these major drawbacks and to improve usability. The case of inventors in the area ‘Wireless power transmission’ is analyzed using patent data for the demonstration of the MLS framework and on evaluation, the framework is found to be capable of retrieving novel and diverse recommendations to and from inventors that belong to different phases of a career.
Keywords: Complex networks; Patent analysis; Inventor Collaboration; Co-inventorship; Link prediction; Recommendation system

Qing Guan, Haizhong An, Huajiao Li, Xiaoqing Hao,
The rapid bi-level exploration on the evolution of regional solar energy development,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 465,
2017,
Pages 49-61,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.08.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437116305234)
Abstract: As one of the renewable energy, solar energy is experiencing increased but exploratory development worldwide. The positive or negative influences of regional characteristics, like economy, production capacity and allowance policies, make them have uneven solar energy development. In this paper, we aim at quickly exploring the features of provincial solar energy development, and their concerns about solar energy. We take China as a typical case, and combine text mining and two-actor networks. We find that the classification of levels based on certain nodes and the amount of degree avoids missing meaningful information that may be ignored by global level results. Moreover, eastern provinces are hot focus for the media, western countries are key to bridge the networks and special administrative region has local development features; third, most focus points are more about the application than the improvement of material. The exploration of news provides practical information to adjust researches and development strategies of solar energy. Moreover, the bi-level exploration, which can also be expanded to multi-level, is helpful for governments or researchers to grasp more targeted and precise knowledge.
Keywords: Solar energy; Regional development; Text mining; Complex network

Shin-Guang Chen,
Linguistic performance evaluation for an ERP system with link failures,
Information Sciences,
Volume 279,
2014,
Pages 229-238,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2014.03.116.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025514004137)
Abstract: An Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system is a complex network composed of various business processes. It can be called an ERP net. This paper proposes an analytic method to evaluate the Linguistic performance of such net under link failure situations. A link failure in an ERP net means that the software or hardware between processes may malfunction. To facility such evaluation, the nodes in the net denote the persons responsible for the business tasks during the processes. The links between nodes denote the process precedence relationships in the ERP system. When the process starts, the documents (jobs) are initiated from the source node to its succeeding nodes. Finally, the documents are released in the destination node. Thus, the performance of an ERP system is related to the document flow under the net. The performance failure of an ERP system is therefore defined by the condition that the document flow of the system is under the acceptable level d. By using the fuzzy linguistic results of the ERP examination of the users, we propose a fuzzy linguistic performance index, defuzzified from the probability of maximal flow not less than d, to evaluate the performance of an ERP system. An algorithm is subsequently proposed to generate the performance index under link failure situations, which can be used to real time assess the system performance either before or after the system going live.
Keywords: Enterprise resource planning; ERP net; Fuzzy mathematics; Performance evaluation; Minimal path

Keping Li, Dongyang Yan, Yanyan Liu, Qiaozhen Zhu,
A network-based feature extraction model for imbalanced text data,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 195,
2022,
116600,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2022.116600.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S095741742200094X)
Abstract: The explosive growth of text data has attracted many researchers to explore the efficient method to extract valuable hidden information. Many technologies, especially deep learning methods, have achieved great success in text analysis. However, the most powerful methods always require a considerable quantity of data for training, which may suffer from imbalanced data in some cases. In this paper, we propose a network-based Convolution Neural Network (NCNN) to mitigate the effect of imbalanced data. The proposed model first generates new synthetic samples for the imbalanced data based on the random walking of the network. Then an extra layer called Polar Layer is introduced to connect the output from the network model of the text to the classical CNN. Two electing strategies (n-NCNN and x-NCNN) are proposed to improve the performance of NCNN further. In the experimental section, the proposed model is applied to Reuters 21578 and WebKb. By comparing with six approaches, we prove the effectiveness of the proposed NCNN model on the imbalanced text data.
Keywords: Complex Network; CNN; Text Analysis; Imbalanced Data; Random Walk

I.S. Fadigas, H.B.B. Pereira,
A network approach based on cliques,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 392, Issue 10,
2013,
Pages 2576-2587,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2013.01.055.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437113001088)
Abstract: The characterization of complex networks is a procedure that is currently found in several research studies. Nevertheless, few studies present a discussion on networks in which the basic element is a clique. In this paper, we propose an approach based on a network of cliques. This approach consists not only of a set of new indices to capture the properties of a network of cliques but also of a method to characterize complex networks of cliques (i.e., some of the parameters are proposed to characterize the small-world phenomenon in networks of cliques). The results obtained are consistent with results from classical methods used to characterize complex networks.
Keywords: Networks of cliques; Complex networks; Small-world phenomenon; Social network; Semantic networks

Dong-Yang Nan, Wei Yu, Xiao Liu, Yun-Peng Zhang, Wei-Di Dai,
A framework of community detection based on individual labels in attribute networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 512,
2018,
Pages 523-536,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2018.08.100.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437118310434)
Abstract: Community detection is an important problem for understanding the structure and function of complex networks and has attracted a lot of attention in recent decades. Most community detection algorithms only focus on the topology of networks. However, there is still much valuable information hidden in the networks, such as the attributes or content of the nodes and the useful prior information. Obviously, taking full advantage of these resources can improve the effectiveness of community detection. In this paper, we present a semi-supervised community detection framework named SCDAN (Semi-supervised Community Detection in Attribute Networks), in which a non-negative matrix factorization model is utilized to effectively integrate network topology, node attributes and individual labels simultaneously. The comparative experiments on real-world networks show that SCDAN significantly improves the performance of community detection and provides semantic interpretation of communities.
Keywords: Community detection; Attribute network; Individual label; Non-negative matrix factorization

Anne O. Peschel, Shahab Kazemi, Martina Liebichová, Stine Cecilie Mangaard Sarraf, Jessica Aschemann-Witzel,
Consumers’ associative networks of plant-based food product communications,
Food Quality and Preference,
Volume 75,
2019,
Pages 145-156,
ISSN 0950-3293,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodqual.2019.02.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S095032931831022X)
Abstract: Food producers respond to the current consumer trend of clean label products and reducing meat consumption by increasingly offering plant-based food products and transparent, understandable ingredient lists. However, consumer interest can be driven by various motives and food producers face the challenge of identifying the most effective motive to address. We analyze concept maps of 90 consumers who received information that positioned plant-based food products as sustainable, healthy, or with a transparent ingredient focus. To assess the applicability of text mining with a view to reducing coder bias and the duration of qualitative data analysis, we compared the results of text mining versus a human coder approach. Our results show that human coder analysis results in more detail, however the advantage of the text mining procedure is that it can run independently and analyze qualitative data more objectively. When a high degree of control and depth of analysis is necessary to satisfy the study objective, human coding might have its rewards. For the current study, both approaches draw a similar picture of the associative networks and are therefore equally suitable to satisfy the study objective. When plant-based diets are communicated solely based on the ingredient used for substituting animal-based ingredients, associative networks are less complex and associations are primarily concerned with taste. A health communication perspective results in more complex networks with a focus on other food product properties such as processing degree and nutrition. A sustainability communication also results in higher complexity, with fewer associations concerning the product properties itself, but rather with the environmental impact and the authenticity of the product. The in-depth understanding of consumers’ associations evoked by communicating different perspectives of plant-based food products can be used by practitioners in tailoring their marketing activities to the characteristics of their product offerings.
Keywords: Concept mapping; Flexitarians; Text mining; Network analysis; Potato protein

Ángeles Criado-Alonso, Elena Battaner-Moro, David Aleja, Miguel Romance, Regino Criado,
Enriched line graph: A new structure for searching language collocations,
Chaos, Solitons & Fractals,
Volume 142,
2021,
110509,
ISSN 0960-0779,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chaos.2020.110509.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960077920309012)
Abstract: The specific terminology of a specialty language comes, essentially, from specific uses of already existing words and/or from specific combinations of words so called “collocations”. In this work we introduce a new mathematical structure (enriched line graph) and a new methodology to extract properties and characteristics of a type of multilayer linguistic networks associated with these types of languages. Specifically, this work is focused on the description of a methodology based on a variant of the PageRank algorithm to locate the linguistic collocations and on defining a new structure (enriched line graph) that can be interpreted as a certain type of “interpolation” between the original graph and its associated line graph, showing new results, properties and applications of this concept, and, in particular, certain characteristics of the specialty language produced by the scientific community of complex networks.
Keywords: Enriched line graph; Multilayer networks; PageRank; Interaction of words; Language collocations

Jianyu Li, Feng Xiao, Jie Zhou, Zhanxin Yang,
Motifs and Motif Generalization in Chinese Word Networks,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 9,
2012,
Pages 550-556,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2012.04.059.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050912001809)
Abstract: The most signiﬁcant semantic unit of Chinese language is words composed of individual characters. This com–positional structure produces great variability and representability compared to individual characters, which is quite distinct from other languages. In this paper we utilized complex networks to model the composition of words from characters. We focus on network motifs, the local pattern which appears more often in a statistically signiﬁcant sense. Network motifs describe the most signiﬁcant connection pattern between these nodes. We investigated their functions and semantical relationship. We also investigated different generalizations of network motifs and analyzed the larger pattern in the complex networks. As the word network is quite huge and the motif detection is very slow when motifs are much larger, for larger pattern in the network we used topology generalization of simple motifs rather than carry out a thorough motif detection task. The results on motifs and motif generalization in this paper not only offer us a big picture how Chinese words are formed, but also support the conclusion that motifs play a very important role in research of complex systems.
Keywords: complex networks; motif; motif generalization

José Sousa, João Barata, Hugo C van Woerden, Frank Kee,
COVID-19 Symptoms app analysis to foresee healthcare impacts: Evidence from Northern Ireland,
Applied Soft Computing,
Volume 116,
2022,
108324,
ISSN 1568-4946,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2021.108324.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494621011169)
Abstract: Mobile health (mHealth) technologies, such as symptom tracking apps, are crucial for coping with the global pandemic crisis by providing near real-time, in situ information for the medical and governmental response. However, in such a dynamic and diverse environment, methods are still needed to support public health decision-making. This paper uses the lens of strong structuration theory to investigate networks of COVID-19 symptoms in the Belfast metropolitan area. A self-supervised machine learning method measuring information entropy was applied to the Northern Ireland COVIDCare app. The findings reveal: (1) relevant stratifications of disease symptoms, (2) particularities in health-wealth networks, and (3) the predictive potential of artificial intelligence to extract entangled knowledge from data in COVID-related apps. The proposed method proved to be effective for near real-time in-situ analysis of COVID-19 progression and to focus and complement public health decisions. Our contribution is relevant to an understanding of SARS-COV-2 symptom entanglements in localised environments. It can assist decision-makers in designing both reactive and proactive health measures that should be personalised to the heterogeneous needs of different populations. Moreover, near real-time assessment of pandemic symptoms using digital technologies will be critical to create early warning systems of emerging SARS-CoV-2 strains and predict the need for healthcare resources.
Keywords: COVID-19; SARS-COV-2; Strong structuration theory; Semantic networks; Mobile app; Location analytics; Symptoms assessment

Zhendong Wu, Jingjing Wang, Liqin Hu, Zhang Zhang, Han Wu,
A network intrusion detection method based on semantic Re-encoding and deep learning,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 164,
2020,
102688,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2020.102688.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804520301624)
Abstract: In recent years, with the increase of human activities in cyberspace, intrusion events, such as network penetration, detection and attack, tend to be frequent and hidden. The traditional intrusion detection methods which prefer rules are not enough to deal with the increasingly complex network intrusion flow. However, the generalization ability of intrusion detection system based on classical machine learning method is still insufficient, and the false alarm rate is high. Aiming at this problem, we consider that normal network traffic and intrusion network traffic are obviously different in several semantic dimensions, though the intrusion traffic is more and more covert. Then we propose a new intrusion detection method, named SRDLM, based on semantic re-encoding and deep learning. The SRDLM method re-encodes the semantics of network traffic, increases the distinguish ability of traffic, and enhances the generalization ability of the algorithm by using deep learning technology, thus effectively improving the accuracy and robustness of the algorithm. The accuracy of the SRDLC algorithm for Web character injection network attack detection is over 99%. When detecting the NSL-KDD data set, the average performance is improved by more than 8% compared with the traditional machine learning method.
Keywords: Intrusion detection; Semantic re-encoding; Deep learning

Alessio Martino, Alessandro Giuliani, Virginia Todde, Mariano Bizzarri, Antonello Rizzi,
Metabolic networks classification and knowledge discovery by information granulation,
Computational Biology and Chemistry,
Volume 84,
2020,
107187,
ISSN 1476-9271,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2019.107187.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1476927119302440)
Abstract: Graphs are powerful structures able to capture topological and semantic information from data, hence suitable for modelling a plethora of real-world (complex) systems. For this reason, graph-based pattern recognition gained a lot of attention in recent years. In this paper, a general-purpose classification system in the graphs domain is presented. When most of the information of the available patterns can be encoded in edge labels, an information granulation-based approach is highly discriminant and allows for the identification of semantically meaningful edges. The proposed classification system has been tested on the entire set of organisms (5299) for which metabolic networks are known, allowing for both a perfect mirroring of the underlying taxonomy and the identification of most discriminant metabolic reactions and pathways. The widespread diffusion of graph (network) structures in biology makes the proposed pattern recognition approach potentially very useful in many different fields of application. More specifically, the possibility to have a reliable metric to compare different metabolic systems is instrumental in emerging fields like microbiome analysis and, more in general, for proposing metabolic networks as a universal phenotype spanning the entire tree of life and in direct contact with environmental cues.
Keywords: Granular computing; Embedding spaces; Support vector machines; Computational biology; Metabolic pathways; Complex networks

H.B.B. Pereira, I.S. Fadigas, V. Senna, M.A. Moret,
Semantic networks based on titles of scientific papers,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 390, Issue 6,
2011,
Pages 1192-1197,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2010.12.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437110010125)
Abstract: In this paper we study the topological structure of semantic networks based on titles of papers published in scientific journals. It discusses its properties and presents some reflections on how the use of social and complex network models can contribute to the diffusion of knowledge. The proposed method presented here is applied to scientific journals where the titles of papers are in English or in Portuguese. We show that the topology of studied semantic networks are small-world and scale-free.
Keywords: Semantic networks; Complex networks; Social network analysis

Diego R. Amancio, Osvaldo N. Oliveira Jr., Luciano da F. Costa,
Structure–semantics interplay in complex networks and its effects on the predictability of similarity in texts,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 391, Issue 18,
2012,
Pages 4406-4419,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2012.04.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437112003044)
Abstract: The classification of texts has become a major endeavor with so much electronic material available, for it is an essential task in several applications, including search engines and information retrieval. There are different ways to define similarity for grouping similar texts into clusters, as the concept of similarity may depend on the purpose of the task. For instance, in topic extraction similar texts mean those within the same semantic field, whereas in author recognition stylistic features should be considered. In this study, we introduce ways to classify texts employing concepts of complex networks, which may be able to capture syntactic, semantic and even pragmatic features. The interplay between various metrics of the complex networks is analyzed with three applications, namely identification of machine translation (MT) systems, evaluation of quality of machine translated texts and authorship recognition. We shall show that topological features of the networks representing texts can enhance the ability to identify MT systems in particular cases. For evaluating the quality of MT texts, on the other hand, high correlation was obtained with methods capable of capturing the semantics. This was expected because the golden standards used are themselves based on word co-occurrence. Notwithstanding, the Katz similarity, which involves semantic and structure in the comparison of texts, achieved the highest correlation with the NIST measurement, indicating that in some cases the combination of both approaches can improve the ability to quantify quality in MT. In authorship recognition, again the topological features were relevant in some contexts, though for the books and authors analyzed good results were obtained with semantic features as well. Because hybrid approaches encompassing semantic and topological features have not been extensively used, we believe that the methodology proposed here may be useful to enhance text classification considerably, as it combines well-established strategies.
Keywords: Similarity index; Complex networks; Machine translation evaluation; Topological analysis; Authorship recognition

R.H. Thompson, W.B. Croft,
Support for browsing in an intelligent text retrieval system,
International Journal of Man-Machine Studies,
Volume 30, Issue 6,
1989,
Pages 639-668,
ISSN 0020-7373,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0020-7373(89)80014-8.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020737389800148)
Abstract: Browsing is potentially an extremely important technique for retrieving text documents from large knowledge bases. The advantages of this technique are that users get immediate feedback from the structure of the knowledge base and exert complete control over the outcome of the search. The primary disadvantages are that it is easy to get lost in a complex network of nodes representing documents and concepts, and there is no guarantee that a browsing search will be as effective as a more conventional search. In this paper, we show how a browsing capability can be integrated into an intelligent text retrieval system. The disadvantages mentioned above are avoided by providing facilities for controlling the browsing and for using the information derived during browsing in more formal search strategies. The architecture of the text retrieval system is described and the browsing techniques are illustrated using an example session.

Jinming Cao, Hanchao Leng, Daniel Cohen-Or, Dani Lischinski, Ying Chen, Changhe Tu, Yangyan Li,
RGB×D: Learning depth-weighted RGB patches for RGB-D indoor semantic segmentation,
Neurocomputing,
Volume 462,
2021,
Pages 568-580,
ISSN 0925-2312,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2021.08.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231221011930)
Abstract: Significant advances have been made in designing CNNs for RGB semantic segmentation. However, these CNNs are not widely adopted for RGB-D segmentation, due to the asymmetry between the RGB and depth modalities. Instead, dedicated architectures are designed to fuse them for effective RGB-D segmentation, wherein complex structures are often employed, resulting in much increased computational cost. In this paper, we propose a novel way to learn the fusion of RGB and depth information in an early stage. This enables our method to easily adopt existing RGB segmentation networks with minimal modification. Our method is simple yet effective to build a bridge between RGB and RGBD semantic segmentation, so as to avoid designing a far more complex network structure for RGBD segmentation. The proposed method treats RGB and depth information in an inherently asymmetric manner, and to the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach that learns to fuse them in a multiplicative manner for RGB-D segmentation; thus, we call it RGB×D. Extensive experiments and ablation studies on the challenging NYUDv2, SUN RGB-D and Cityscapes semantic segmentation benchmarks show that the proposed RGB×D offers a consistent improvement over several baselines.
Keywords: RGB-D indoor semantic segmentation; Depth information; Deep learning

Laura V.C. Quispe, Jorge A.V. Tohalino, Diego R. Amancio,
Using virtual edges to improve the discriminability of co-occurrence text networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 562,
2021,
125344,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2020.125344.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037843712030707X)
Abstract: Word co-occurrence networks have been employed to analyze texts both in the practical and theoretical scenarios. Despite the relative success in several applications, traditional co-occurrence networks fail in establishing links between similar words whenever they appear distant in the text. Here we investigate whether the use of word embeddings as a tool to create virtual links in co-occurrence networks may improve the quality of classification systems. Our results revealed that the discriminability in the stylometry task is improved when using Glove, Word2Vec and FastText. In addition, we found that optimized results are obtained when stopwords are not disregarded and a simple global thresholding strategy is used to establish virtual links. Because the proposed approach is able to improve the representation of texts as complex networks, we believe that it could be extended to study other natural language processing tasks. Likewise, theoretical languages studies could benefit from the adopted enriched representation of word co-occurrence networks.
Keywords: Network science; Language networks; Text networks; Co-occurrence networks; Semantic networks; Word embeddings

Jorge V. Tohalino, Diego R. Amancio,
Extractive multi-document summarization using multilayer networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 503,
2018,
Pages 526-539,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2018.03.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437118303212)
Abstract: Huge volumes of textual information has been produced every single day. In order to organize and understand such large datasets, in recent years, summarization techniques have become popular. These techniques aims at finding relevant, concise and non-redundant content from such a big data. While network methods have been adopted to model texts in some scenarios, a systematic evaluation of multilayer network models in the multi-document summarization task has been limited to a few studies. Here, we evaluate the performance of a multilayer-based method to select the most relevant sentences in the context of an extractive multi document summarization (MDS) task. In the adopted model, nodes represent sentences and edges are created based on the number of shared words between sentences. Differently from previous studies in multi-document summarization, we make a distinction between edges linking sentences from different documents (inter-layer) and those connecting sentences from the same document (intra-layer). As a proof of principle, our results reveal that such a discrimination between intra- and inter-layer in a multilayered representation is able to improve the quality of the generated summaries. This piece of information could be used to improve current statistical methods and related textual models.
Keywords: Complex networks; Multilayer networks; Structure and dynamics; PageRank; Text analysis; Text summarization

Vitor Horta, Victor Ströele, Regina Braga, José Maria N. David, Fernanda Campos,
Analyzing scientific context of researchers and communities by using complex network and semantic technologies,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 89,
2018,
Pages 584-605,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2018.07.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X17328431)
Abstract: Social network communities are composed of people with common interests who influence or are influenced by themselves. In the scientific context, Scientific Social Networks are characterized as social networks that represent the social relations established by researchers. Identifying and exploring these relationships are fundamental activities to support scientific experiments. In this study, we aim to discuss the use of complex networks combined with semantic analysis in a network of scientific publications called DBLP. DBLP can be classified as big data, and its use for the analysis of connections and influences among researchers can be considered a context-aware approach. Therefore, in the present study, concepts of complex network analysis are applied to verify the level of influence among researchers, by analyzing the structure of the scientific social network under study and its communities. A bidirectional graph-based model was proposed in order to evaluate the influence of researchers, in addition to algorithms to analyze the network structure and identify scientific communities, using ontological terms and rules, considering the scientific context, and identifying new connections to promote scientific collaboration. For the identification of scientific communities, we proposed an overlapping community detection algorithm, named NetSCAN. A large scientific database (DBLP) together with digital libraries were used to evaluate the model and the algorithms in a historical research experiment. The results point to the viability and effectiveness of the proposed solution.
Keywords: Scientific social network analysis; Semantic analysis; Overlapping community detection; Clustering algorithm; Ontology; Scientific context

A.K. Enaleev, V.V. Tsyganov,
Examination of design for large and complex network projects,
Procedia CIRP,
Volume 84,
2019,
Pages 11-15,
ISSN 2212-8271,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2019.04.286.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212827119309345)
Abstract: This paper considers identifying critical errors problem in a complex project design with a large number of performers. A multi-stage scheme for extracting semantic data from a large number of documents with interdependent sections is offered. At the first stage, the complexity of the primary analysis of data from these sections is estimated. Then this complexity in view of the identified data from adjacent sections is clarified. Based on this, the final breakdown of a large document data set is formed into clusters with alignment of their complexity. The selection and distribution of clusters between experts are in such a way as to ensure the maximum criterion of analysis efficiency in accordance with the existing time and financial resources. The proposed approach has been applied when developing large-scale transport projects.
Keywords: Selective processing; big data; data mining; alignment; cluster; network; heuristics; fond allocation

Tomasz Stanisz, Jarosław Kwapień, Stanisław Drożdż,
Linguistic data mining with complex networks: A stylometric-oriented approach,
Information Sciences,
Volume 482,
2019,
Pages 301-320,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2019.01.040.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S002002551930043X)
Abstract: By representing a text by a set of words and their co-occurrences, one obtains a word-adjacency network being a reduced representation of a given language sample. In this paper, the possibility of using network representation to extract information about individual language styles of literary texts is studied. By determining selected quantitative characteristics of the networks and applying machine learning algorithms, it is possible to distinguish between texts of different authors. Within the studied set of texts, English and Polish, a properly rescaled weighted clustering coefficients and weighted degrees of only a few nodes in the word-adjacency networks are sufficient to obtain the authorship attribution accuracy over 90%. A correspondence between the text authorship and the word-adjacency network structure can therefore be found. The network representation allows to distinguish individual language styles by comparing the way the authors use particular words and punctuation marks. The presented approach can be viewed as a generalization of the authorship attribution methods based on simple lexical features. Additionally, other network parameters are studied, both local and global ones, for both the unweighted and weighted networks. Their potential to capture the writing style diversity is discussed; some differences between languages are observed.
Keywords: Complex networks; Natural language; Data mining; Stylometry; Authorship attribution

Yoshiaki Matsuzaw, Jun Oshima, Ritsuko Oshima, Yusuke Niihara, Sanshiro Sakai,
KBDeX: A Platform for Exploring Discourse in Collaborative Learning,
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
Volume 26,
2011,
Pages 198-207,
ISSN 1877-0428,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2011.10.576.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042811024037)
Abstract: Knowledge building as defined in this study is emergent collaborative learning on ill-structured tasks. Although discourses in collaborative learning have been analyzed with traditional qualitative approaches in the learning sciences field, it is difficult to capture the group dynamics. Hence, we are trying to establish a methodology for discourse analysis in collaborative learning from the perspective of complex network science. In order to conduct this study effectively, we are currently developing an application platform, called Knowledge Building Discourse Explorer (KBDeX). The goal of this project is not only to facilitate productive communication between researchers who are concerned with research on knowledge building or emergent collaborative learning, but also to encourage students to explore their own group dynamics by themselves. KBDeX is an analysis platform to visualize network structures of discourse based on the bipartite graph of words × discourse units. KBDeX can visualize them into three different network structures of: (1) students, (2) discourse units, and (3) selected words. The users can explore these three networks with its coefficients and analyze the discourse across phases or in a and stepwise way. Using discourse which has been already analyzed with a traditional qualitative approach, we will demonstrate the beneficial attributes of the KBDeX platform.
Keywords: Collaborative Learning; Discourse Analysis; Network Anasysis ;Bipartited Network; Application Platform

H.B.B. Pereira, I.S. Fadigas, R.L.S. Monteiro, A.J.A. Cordeiro, M.A. Moret,
Density: A measure of the diversity of concepts addressed in semantic networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 441,
2016,
Pages 81-84,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2015.08.024.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437115006792)
Abstract: In this paper, we studied density effects in semantic networks constructed from a database of titles of papers published in scientific journals as a parameter to indicate the diversity of concepts in a journal. The proposed method essentially consists of fixing the number of titles for all of the studied scientific journals and analyzing the behavior of the density variation curves with regard to the inclusion of cliques (that is, complete networks associated with the titles). We observed that density behaves as a critically self-organized object when titles (cliques) are included in the network.
Keywords: Complex networks; Self-organized criticality; Euclidean distances

Umar Manzoor, Samia Nefti,
iDetect: Content Based Monitoring of Complex Networks using Mobile Agents,
Applied Soft Computing,
Volume 12, Issue 5,
2012,
Pages 1607-1619,
ISSN 1568-4946,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2011.10.025.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494611004492)
Abstract: With the evolution in computer networks over the last decade, researchers are trying to come up with efficient approaches which can help network administrator in implementing the acceptable use policy for large complex networks. In this paper we have modified An Agent Based System for Activity Monitoring on Network – ABSAMN architecture and proposed iDetect: Content Based Monitoring of Complex Network using Mobile Agents which uses the content (i.e. text, image and video) of the application for categorization purpose. iDetect is implemented in Java using Java Agent Development (JADE) framework and supports platform independence; however, the framework has been tested only on Microsoft Windows (any version) environment. We have evaluated iDetect and ABSAMN on same configuration concurrently at the university campus having four labs equipped with 60–120 number of PCs in various labs; experimental results shows that iDetect efficiently detects known/unknown illegal activities (applications/websites) running on the network as compared to ABSAMN.
Keywords: Complex network monitoring; Content based monitoring; Mobile agent; Distributed proxy server; Collaborative Multi-Agent System

Andrzej Kulig, Jarosław Kwapień, Tomasz Stanisz, Stanisław Drożdż,
In narrative texts punctuation marks obey the same statistics as words,
Information Sciences,
Volume 375,
2017,
Pages 98-113,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2016.09.051.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025516310283)
Abstract: From a grammar point of view, the role of punctuation marks in a sentence is formally defined and well understood. In semantic analysis punctuation plays also a crucial role as a method of avoiding ambiguity of the meaning. A different situation can be observed in the statistical analyses of language samples, where the decision on whether the punctuation marks should be considered or should be neglected is seen rather as arbitrary and at present it belongs to a researcher’s preference. An objective of this work is to shed some light onto this problem by providing us with an answer to the question whether the punctuation marks may be treated as ordinary words and whether they should be included in any analysis of the word co-occurrences. We already know from our previous study (S. Drożdż et al., Inf. Sci. 331 (2016) 32-44) that full stops that determine the length of sentences are the main carrier of long-range correlations. Now we extend that study and analyse statistical properties of the most common punctuation marks in a few Indo-European languages, investigate their frequencies, and locate them accordingly in the Zipf rank-frequency plots as well as study their role in the word-adjacency networks. We show that, from a statistical viewpoint, the punctuation marks reveal properties that are qualitatively similar to the properties of the most frequent words like articles, conjunctions, pronouns, and prepositions. This refers to both the Zipfian analysis and the network analysis. By adding the punctuation marks to the Zipf plots, we also show that these plots that are normally described by the Zipf–Mandelbrot distribution largely restore the power-law Zipfian behaviour for the most frequent items. Our results indicate that the punctuation marks can fruitfully be considered in the linguistic studies as their inclusion effectively extends dimensionality of an analysis and, therefore, it opens more space for possible manifestation of some previously unobserved effects.
Keywords: Punctuation; Word-adjacency networks; Complex networks; Word-frequency distribution

L. Antiqueira, M.G.V. Nunes, O.N. Oliveira Jr., L. da F. Costa,
Strong correlations between text quality and complex networks features,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 373,
2007,
Pages 811-820,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2006.06.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437106006881)
Abstract: Concepts of complex networks have been used to obtain metrics that were correlated to text quality established by scores assigned by human judges. Texts produced by high-school students in Portuguese were represented as scale-free networks (word adjacency model), from which typical network features such as the in/outdegree, clustering coefficient and shortest path were obtained. Another metric was derived from the dynamics of the network growth, based on the variation of the number of connected components. The scores assigned by the human judges according to three text quality criteria (coherence and cohesion, adherence to standard writing conventions and theme adequacy/development) were correlated with the network measurements. Text quality for all three criteria was found to decrease with increasing average values of outdegrees, clustering coefficient and deviation from the dynamics of network growth. Among the criteria employed, cohesion and coherence showed the strongest correlation, which probably indicates that the network measurements are able to capture how the text is developed in terms of the concepts represented by the nodes in the networks. Though based on a particular set of texts and specific language, the results presented here point to potential applications in other instances of text analysis.
Keywords: Complex networks; Text analysis; Networks measurements

Henrique F. de Arruda, Vanessa Q. Marinho, Thales S. Lima, Diego R. Amancio, Luciano da F. Costa,
An image analysis approach to text analytics based on complex networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 510,
2018,
Pages 110-120,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2018.06.110.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437118308343)
Abstract: Text network analysis has received increasing attention as a consequence of its wide range of applications. In this study, we extend a previous work founded on the study of topological features of mesoscopic networks. Here, the geometrical properties of visualized networks are quantified by using several image analysis techniques. Such properties are used to probe the networks characteristics in terms of authorship. It was found that the visual features account for performance similar to that achieved by using topological measurements. Also, we combined and compared the two types of features, topological and geometrical, and the results suggest that the information provided by network topology and image features are complementary.
Keywords: Complex networks; Mesoscopic networks; Authorship; Text mining; Computer vision

Claudia Coronnello, Michele Tumminello, Salvatore Miccichè,
Gene-based and semantic structure of the Gene Ontology as a complex network,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 458,
2016,
Pages 313-328,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.03.062.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437116300607)
Abstract: The last decade has seen the advent and consolidation of ontology based tools for the identification and biological interpretation of classes of genes, such as the Gene Ontology. The Gene Ontology (GO) is constantly evolving over time. The information accumulated time-by-time and included in the GO is encoded in the definition of terms and in the setting up of semantic relations amongst terms. Here we investigate the Gene Ontology from a complex network perspective. We consider the semantic network of terms naturally associated with the semantic relationships provided by the Gene Ontology consortium. Moreover, the GO is a natural example of bipartite network of terms and genes. Here we are interested in studying the properties of the projected network of terms, i.e. a gene-based weighted network of GO terms, in which a link between any two terms is set if at least one gene is annotated in both terms. One aim of the present paper is to compare the structural properties of the semantic and the gene-based network. The relative importance of terms is very similar in the two networks, but the community structure changes. We show that in some cases GO terms that appear to be distinct from a semantic point of view are instead connected, and appear in the same community when considering their gene content. The identification of such gene-based communities of terms might therefore be the basis of a simple protocol aiming at improving the semantic structure of GO. Information about terms that share large gene content might also be important from a biomedical point of view, as it might reveal how genes over-expressed in a certain term also affect other biological processes, molecular functions and cellular components not directly linked according to GO semantics.
Keywords: Complex systems; Networks; Bipartite system; Community detection; Ontology; Genes

Jun Wang, Jiaxu Peng, Ou Liu,
A classification approach for less popular webpages based on latent semantic analysis and rough set model,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 42, Issue 1,
2015,
Pages 642-648,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2014.08.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417414004898)
Abstract: Nowadays, with the explosive growth of web information, the webpage classification faces great challenge. Computers have difficulty in understanding the semantic meaning of textual or non-textual webpages. Fortunately, Web 2.0 based collaborative tagging system brings new opportunities to solve this problem. It abstracts structured tags from unstructured content in webpages. However, large numbers of webpages on the Internet are less popular. Their tagging information is sparse, which makes their topic unclear and leads to ambiguous classification. Illuminated by the “ambiguous classification”, we name the less popular webpage “hesitant webpage”. In this paper, we propose an advanced approach for hesitant webpages classification. Firstly, hesitant webpages are divided into bridges, hubs and attached webpages according to their roles on the Internet. Secondly, attached webpages are classified by mining and extending their information in two perspectives. One is the latent semantic analysis (LSA) which is applied to fully explore the semantic meaning of sparse tags. It promotes accurate cognition of webpages semantically close to attached webpages. Another is the proposed density-relation-based rough set model which measures the affiliation degree of attached webpages in different categories. Experiment on real data shows that our approach effectively classifies the hesitant webpages base on the semantic meaning.
Keywords: Webpage classification; Complex network analysis; Rough set; Latent semantic analysis

Sitabhra Sinha, Ashraf Md Izhar, Raj Kumar Pan, Bryan Kenneth Wells,
Network analysis of a corpus of undeciphered Indus civilization inscriptions indicates syntactic organization,
Computer Speech & Language,
Volume 25, Issue 3,
2011,
Pages 639-654,
ISSN 0885-2308,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csl.2010.05.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0885230810000446)
Abstract: Archaeological excavations in the sites of the Indus Valley civilization (2500–1900 BCE) in Pakistan and northwestern India have unearthed a large number of artifacts with inscriptions made up of hundreds of distinct signs. To date, there is no generally accepted decipherment of these sign sequences, and there have been suggestions that the signs could be non-linguistic. Here we apply complex network analysis techniques to a database of available Indus inscriptions, with the aim of detecting patterns indicative of syntactic organization. Our results show the presence of patterns, e.g., recursive structures in the segmentation trees of the sequences, that suggest the existence of a grammar underlying these inscriptions.
Keywords: Linguistic corpus; Indus civilization; Network analysis

Roman Bartusiak, Łukasz Augustyniak, Tomasz Kajdanowicz, Przemysław Kazienko, Maciej Piasecki,
WordNet2Vec: Corpora agnostic word vectorization method,
Neurocomputing,
Volumes 326–327,
2019,
Pages 141-150,
ISSN 0925-2312,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2017.01.121.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217315217)
Abstract: The complex nature of big data resources requires new structuring methods, especially for textual content. WordNet is a good knowledge source for the comprehensive abstraction of natural language as it offers good implementation for many languages. Since WordNet embeds natural language in the form of a complex network, a transformation mechanism, WordNet2Vec, is proposed in this paper. This creates vectors for each word from WordNet. These vectors encapsulate a general position — the role of a given word related to all other words in the given natural language. Any list or set of such vectors contains knowledge about the context of its components within the whole language. This type of word representation can be easily applied to many analytic tasks such as classification or clustering. The usefulness of the WordNet2Vec method is demonstrated in sentiment analysis including the classification of an Amazon opinion text dataset with transfer learning.
Keywords: Natural language structuring; WordNet; WordNet2Vec; Vectorization; Network transformation; Sentiment analysis; Transfer learning; Big data; Complex networks

Guangli Zhu, Zhuangzhuang Pan, Qiaoyun Wang, Shunxiang Zhang, Kuan-Ching Li,
Building multi-subtopic Bi-level network for micro-blog hot topic based on feature Co-Occurrence and semantic community division,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 170,
2020,
102815,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2020.102815.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804520302861)
Abstract: The multi-subtopic is challenging to be understood timely and comprehensively due to micro-blog characteristics, such as low-value density, and fast update speed. For such an issue, this paper proposes a Multi-Subtopic Bi-level Network (MSBN) for micro-blog hot topics based on feature co-occurrence and semantic community division to support users understanding better the subject. First, the highlighted words are extracted by combining two coefficients including the micro-blog importance (e.g., the number of comments and the number of praises) and the time decay. The compound co-occurrence rates (i.e., global and local co-occurrence rates) are used to measure the correlation strength between any two highlighted words, while the global semantic of a micro-blog hot topic can be shown as a complex network whose nodes are the extracted feature words and edges are relations between any two feature words. Next, an improved weighted modularity function is proposed as a criterion for the community division. The complex network of a topic is divided into some semantic communities, where each is regarded as a subtopic of the given micro-blog topic. Subsequently, the genetic algorithm is used to calculate the maximum of weighted modularity and achieve community division of complex networks, so finally, the terminal location of each micro-blog in a different semantic community is obtained to draw regional location map and analyze the supporting propensity of each region to the micro-blog hot topic. Experimental results show that the proposed model can accurately and effectively represent the multi-subtopic of a micro-blog hot topic in the current time that supports users to discover and understand the micro-blog hot topic, allowing users to identify and understand the concerned differences among different regions for the same micro-blog hot topic.
Keywords: Complex network; Multi-subtopic model; Semantic community division; Complex co-occurrence rates; Genetic algorithm

Ismo T. Koponen, Elina Palmgren, Esko Keski-Vakkuri,
Characterising heavy-tailed networks using q-generalised entropy and q-adjacency kernels,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 566,
2021,
125666,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2020.125666.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037843712030964X)
Abstract: Heavy-tailed networks, which have degree distributions characterised by slower than exponentially bounded tails, are common in many different situations. Some interesting cases, where heavy tails are characterised by inverse powers λ in the range 1<λ<2, arise for associative knowledge networks, and semantic and linguistic networks. In these cases, the differences between the networks are often delicate, calling for robust methods to characterise the differences. Here, we introduce a method for comparing networks using a density matrix based on q-generalised adjacency matrix kernels. It is shown that comparison of networks can then be performed using the q-generalised Kullback–Leibler divergence. In addition, the q-generalised divergence can be interpreted as a q-generalised free energy, which enables the thermodynamic-like macroscopic description of the heavy-tailed networks. The viability of the q-generalised adjacency kernels and the thermodynamic-like description in characterisation of complex networks is demonstrated using a simulated set of networks, which are modular and heavy-tailed with a degree distribution of inverse power law in the range 1<λ<2.
Keywords: Heavy tailed networks; Adjacency kernels; q-entropy; Generalised thermodynamics

Shaojing Sun, Yujia Zhai, Bin Shen, Yibei Chen,
Newspaper coverage of artificial intelligence: A perspective of emerging technologies,
Telematics and Informatics,
Volume 53,
2020,
101433,
ISSN 0736-5853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tele.2020.101433.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736585320300927)
Abstract: The focus of the study is on how newspapers have covered artificial intelligence (AI) over the past decades. Analyzing 1776 news articles culled from four mainstream newspapers (i.e., the New York Times, Washington Post, the Guardian, and USA Today), the study examined the general landscape of media coverage as well as media framing of the topic through a mixed methodology (i.e., automatic content analysis and manual coding). Fourteen major topics (e.g., regulation & policy, risk & weapon) emerged from the accumulated articles. Furthermore, the study found that journalists have used different framing devices, including lexical compounds and argumentation patterns, to frame AI as a sophisticated, powerful, and value-laden issue. Also, different actors (e.g., research communities, governments, business sectors) combined to constitute a complex network in the media discourses.
Keywords: Artificial intelligence; Media; Emerging technology

Belkacem Serrour, Alex Arenas, Sergio Gómez,
Detecting communities of triangles in complex networks using spectral optimization,
Computer Communications,
Volume 34, Issue 5,
2011,
Pages 629-634,
ISSN 0140-3664,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2010.05.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366410002410)
Abstract: The study of the sub-structure of complex networks is of major importance to relate topology and functionality. Many efforts have been devoted to the analysis of the modular structure of networks using the quality function known as modularity. However, generally speaking, the relation between topological modules and functional groups is still unknown, and depends on the semantic of the links. Sometimes, we know in advance that many connections are transitive, and as a consequence, triangles have a specific meaning. Here we propose the study of the modular structure of networks considering triangles as the building blocks of modules. The method generalizes the standard modularity and uses spectral optimization to find its maximum. We compare the partitions obtained with those resulting from the optimization of the standard modularity in several real networks. The results show that the information reported by the analysis of modules of triangles complements the information of the classical modularity analysis.
Keywords: Complex networks; Communities; Triangle modularity; Spectral optimization

Jingchi Jiang, Jichuan Zheng, Chao Zhao, Jia Su, Yi Guan, Qiubin Yu,
Clinical-decision support based on medical literature: A complex network approach,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 459,
2016,
Pages 42-54,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.04.026.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437116301480)
Abstract: In making clinical decisions, clinicians often review medical literature to ensure the reliability of diagnosis, test, and treatment because the medical literature can answer clinical questions and assist clinicians making clinical decisions. Therefore, finding the appropriate literature is a critical problem for clinical-decision support (CDS). First, the present study employs search engines to retrieve relevant literature about patient records. However, the result of the traditional method is usually unsatisfactory. To improve the relevance of the retrieval result, a medical literature network (MLN) based on these retrieved papers is constructed. Then, we show that this MLN has small-world and scale-free properties of a complex network. According to the structural characteristics of the MLN, we adopt two methods to further identify the potential relevant literature in addition to the retrieved literature. By integrating these potential papers into the MLN, a more comprehensive MLN is built to answer the question of actual patient records. Furthermore, we propose a re-ranking model to sort all papers by relevance. We experimentally find that the re-ranking model can improve the normalized discounted cumulative gain of the results. As participants of the Text Retrieval Conference 2015, our clinical-decision method based on the MLN also yields higher scores than the medians in most topics and achieves the best scores for topics: #11 and #12. These research results indicate that our study can be used to effectively assist clinicians in making clinical decisions, and the MLN can facilitate the investigation of CDS.
Keywords: Small-world; Scale-free; Complex network; Medical literature network; Clinical decision support

Didier A. Vega-Oliveros, Pedro Spoljaric Gomes, Evangelos E. Milios, Lilian Berton,
A multi-centrality index for graph-based keyword extraction,
Information Processing & Management,
Volume 56, Issue 6,
2019,
102063,
ISSN 0306-4573,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2019.102063.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457319303267)
Abstract: Keyword extraction aims to capture the main topics of a document and is an important step in natural language processing (NLP) applications. The use of different graph centrality measures has been proposed to extract automatic keywords. However, there is no consensus yet on how these measures compare in this task. Here, we present the multi-centrality index (MCI) approach, which aims to find the optimal combination of word rankings according to the selection of centrality measures. We analyze nine centrality measures (Betweenness, Clustering Coefficient, Closeness, Degree, Eccentricity, Eigenvector, K-Core, PageRank, Structural Holes) for identifying keywords in co-occurrence word-graphs representation of documents. We perform experiments on three datasets of documents and demonstrate that all individual centrality methods achieve similar statistical results, while the proposed MCI approach significantly outperforms the individual centralities, three clustering algorithms, and previously reported results in the literature.
Keywords: Automatic keyword extraction; Centrality measures; Complex networks; Network science; Text mining; Text networks; Clustering

Xushan Peng, Xiaoming Zhang, Yongping Li, Bangquan Liu,
Research on image feature extraction and retrieval algorithms based on convolutional neural network,
Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation,
Volume 69,
2020,
102705,
ISSN 1047-3203,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2019.102705.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320319303268)
Abstract: With the rapid development of mobile Internet and digital technology, people are more and more keen to share pictures on social networks, and online pictures have exploded. How to retrieve similar images from large-scale images has always been a hot issue in the field of image retrieval, and the selection of image features largely affects the performance of image retrieval. The Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), which contains more hidden layers, has more complex network structure and stronger ability of feature learning and expression compared with traditional feature extraction methods. By analyzing the disadvantage that global CNN features cannot effectively describe local details when they act on image retrieval tasks, a strategy of aggregating low-level CNN feature maps to generate local features is proposed. The high-level features of CNN model pay more attention to semantic information, but the low-level features pay more attention to local details. Using the increasingly abstract characteristics of CNN model from low to high. This paper presents a probabilistic semantic retrieval algorithm, proposes a probabilistic semantic hash retrieval method based on CNN, and designs a new end-to-end supervised learning framework, which can simultaneously learn semantic features and hash features to achieve fast image retrieval. Using convolution network, the error rate is reduced to 14.41% in this test set. In three open image libraries, namely Oxford, Holidays and ImageNet, the performance of traditional SIFT-based retrieval algorithms and other CNN-based image retrieval algorithms in tasks are compared and analyzed. The experimental results show that the proposed algorithm is superior to other contrast algorithms in terms of comprehensive retrieval effect and retrieval time.
Keywords: Image retrieval; In-depth learning; Feature extraction; Convolutional neural network

Rui Li, Shunyi Zheng, Ce Zhang, Chenxi Duan, Libo Wang, Peter M. Atkinson,
ABCNet: Attentive bilateral contextual network for efficient semantic segmentation of Fine-Resolution remotely sensed imagery,
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing,
Volume 181,
2021,
Pages 84-98,
ISSN 0924-2716,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2021.09.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924271621002379)
Abstract: Semantic segmentation of remotely sensed imagery plays a critical role in many real-world applications, such as environmental change monitoring, precision agriculture, environmental protection, and economic assessment. Following rapid developments in sensor technologies, vast numbers of fine-resolution satellite and airborne remote sensing images are now available, for which semantic segmentation is potentially a valuable method. However, because of the rich complexity and heterogeneity of information provided with an ever-increasing spatial resolution, state-of-the-art deep learning algorithms commonly adopt complex network structures for segmentation, which often result in significant computational demand. Particularly, the frequently-used fully convolutional network (FCN) relies heavily on fine-grained spatial detail (fine spatial resolution) and contextual information (large receptive fields), both imposing high computational costs. This impedes the practical utility of FCN for real-world applications, especially those requiring real-time data processing. In this paper, we propose a novel Attentive Bilateral Contextual Network (ABCNet), a lightweight convolutional neural network (CNN) with a spatial path and a contextual path. Extensive experiments, including a comprehensive ablation study, demonstrate that ABCNet has strong discrimination capability with competitive accuracy compared with state-of-the-art benchmark methods while achieving significantly increased computational efficiency. Specifically, the proposed ABCNet achieves a 91.3% overall accuracy (OA) on the Potsdam test dataset and outperforms all lightweight benchmark methods significantly. The code is freely available at https://github.com/lironui/ABCNet.
Keywords: Semantic Segmentation; Attention Mechanism; Bilateral Architecture; Convolutional Neural Network; Deep Learning

Long Sheng, Chunguang Li,
English and Chinese languages as weighted complex networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 388, Issue 12,
2009,
Pages 2561-2570,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2009.02.043.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437109001769)
Abstract: In this paper, we analyze statistical properties of English and Chinese written human language within the framework of weighted complex networks. The two language networks are based on an English novel and a Chinese biography, respectively, and both of the networks are constructed in the same way. By comparing the intensity and density of connections between the two networks, we find that high weight connections in Chinese language networks prevail more than those in English language networks. Furthermore, some of the topological and weighted quantities are compared. The results display some differences in the structural organizations between the two language networks. These observations indicate that the two languages may have different linguistic mechanisms and different combinatorial natures.
Keywords: Weighted complex networks; Written human language; Zipf’s law; Power–law distribution

Cao Duong Ly, Van Tu Nguyen, Tan Hung Vo, Sudip Mondal, Sumin Park, Jaeyeop Choi, Thi Thu Ha Vu, Chang-Seok Kim, Junghwan Oh,
Full-view in vivo skin and blood vessels profile segmentation in photoacoustic imaging based on deep learning,
Photoacoustics,
Volume 25,
2022,
100310,
ISSN 2213-5979,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pacs.2021.100310.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213597921000707)
Abstract: Photoacoustic (PA) microscopy allows imaging of the soft biological tissue based on optical absorption contrast and spatial ultrasound resolution. One of the major applications of PA imaging is its characterization of microvasculature. However, the strong PA signal from skin layer overshadowed the subcutaneous blood vessels leading to indirectly reconstruct the PA images in human study. Addressing the present situation, we examined a deep learning (DL) automatic algorithm to achieve high-resolution and high-contrast segmentation for widening PA imaging applications. In this research, we propose a DL model based on modified U-Net for extracting the relationship features between amplitudes of the generated PA signal from skin and underlying vessels. This study illustrates the broader potential of hybrid complex network as an automatic segmentation tool for the in vivo PA imaging. With DL-infused solution, our result outperforms the previous studies with achieved real-time semantic segmentation on large-size high-resolution PA images.
Keywords: Photoacoustic imaging; Segmentation; High resolution; Deep learning; U-Net

Yue-Tian-Yi Zhao, Zi-Yang Jia, Yong Tang, Jason Jie Xiong, Yi-Cheng Zhang,
Quantitative learning strategies based on word networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 491,
2018,
Pages 898-911,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2017.09.097.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437117309858)
Abstract: Learning English requires a considerable effort, but the way that vocabulary is introduced in textbooks is not optimized for learning efficiency. With the increasing population of English learners, learning process optimization will have significant impact and improvement towards English learning and teaching. The recent developments of big data analysis and complex network science provide additional opportunities to design and further investigate the strategies in English learning. In this paper, quantitative English learning strategies based on word network and word usage information are proposed. The strategies integrate the words frequency with topological structural information. By analyzing the influence of connected learned words, the learning weights for the unlearned words and dynamically updating of the network are studied and analyzed. The results suggest that quantitative strategies significantly improve learning efficiency while maintaining effectiveness. Especially, the optimized-weight-first strategy and segmented strategies outperform other strategies. The results provide opportunities for researchers and practitioners to reconsider the way of English teaching and designing vocabularies quantitatively by balancing the efficiency and learning costs based on the word network.
Keywords: Word network; Network analysis; Quantitative linguistics; Vocabulary building; Corpus-based linguistic analysis

Tingting Hou, Xiangjuan Yao, Dunwei Gong,
Community detection in software ecosystem by comprehensively evaluating developer cooperation intensity,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 130,
2021,
106451,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2020.106451.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584920302007)
Abstract: Context
: As soon as the concept of software ecosystem was proposed, it has aroused great interest in both academia and industry. Software ecosystem can be described as a special complex network. Community structures are critical towards understanding not only the network topology but also how the network functions. Traditional community detection algorithms in complex networks mainly utilize the network topology to measure the similarities between nodes. Because of the complexity of information interaction in software ecosystem, only considering the topology structure will lead to unreasonable division of communities.
Objective
: For solving community detection in software ecosystem more reasonably, we present a method of community detection by comprehensively evaluating developer cooperation intensity in software ecosystems.
Method
: First, we combine network topology information and developer interaction information to calculate the developer cooperation intensity, so as to deeply explore the relationship between developers from both topological and semantic properties. Then a community detection algorithm ABDCI is proposed based on the cooperation intensity of developers by referring to the hierarchical clustering idea of Louvain algorithm. Finally, this method is applied to many different types of developer networks in the software ecosystem through GitHub hosting platform.
Results
: Comparing with three classical community detection algorithms, we find that the proposed method can identify a clearer community structure for the developer collaboration network in the software ecosystem.
Conclusion
: Our approach provides an effective and extensible technique for solving the community detection problem of real developer collaboration network in software ecosystem. According to our findings, we conclude that community detection algorithms based on comprehensive topological properties and semantic properties are more suitable for real communities in software ecosystems than traditional single-property algorithms.
Keywords: Software ecosystem; Community detection; Complex network; Cooperation intensity; Louvain algorithm

Alexander Mehler, Olga Pustylnikov, Nils Diewald,
Geography of social ontologies: Testing a variant of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis in the context of Wikipedia,
Computer Speech & Language,
Volume 25, Issue 3,
2011,
Pages 716-740,
ISSN 0885-2308,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csl.2010.05.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0885230810000434)
Abstract: In this article, we test a variant of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis in the area of complex network theory. This is done by analyzing social ontologies as a new resource for automatic language classification. Our method is to solely explore structural features of social ontologies in order to predict family resemblances of languages used by the corresponding communities to build these ontologies. This approach is based on a reformulation of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis in terms of distributed cognition. Starting from a corpus of 160 Wikipedia-based social ontologies, we test our variant of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis by several experiments, and find out that we outperform the corresponding baselines. All in all, the article develops an approach to classify linguistic networks of tens of thousands of vertices by exploring a small range of mathematically well-established topological indices.
Keywords: Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis; Linguistic networks; Automatic language classification; Social ontologies; Quantitative network analysis

Saman Farahmand, Todd Riley, Kourosh Zarringhalam,
ModEx: A text mining system for extracting mode of regulation of transcription factor-gene regulatory interaction,
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,
Volume 102,
2020,
103353,
ISSN 1532-0464,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2019.103353.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046419302746)
Abstract: Background
Transcription factors (TFs) are proteins that are fundamental to transcription and regulation of gene expression. Each TF may regulate multiple genes and each gene may be regulated by multiple TFs. TFs can act as either activator or repressor of gene expression. This complex network of interactions between TFs and genes underlies many developmental and biological processes and is implicated in several human diseases such as cancer. Hence deciphering the network of TF-gene interactions with information on mode of regulation (activation vs. repression) is an important step toward understanding the regulatory pathways that underlie complex traits. There are many experimental, computational, and manually curated databases of TF-gene interactions. In particular, high-throughput ChIP-Seq datasets provide a large-scale map or transcriptional regulatory interactions. However, these interactions are not annotated with information on context and mode of regulation. Such information is crucial to gain a global picture of gene regulatory mechanisms and can aid in developing machine learning models for applications such as biomarker discovery, prediction of response to therapy, and precision medicine.
Methods
In this work, we introduce a text-mining system to annotate ChIP-Seq derived interaction with such meta data through mining PubMed articles. We evaluate the performance of our system using gold standard small scale manually curated databases.
Results
Our results show that the method is able to accurately extract mode of regulation with F-score 0.77 on TRRUST curated interaction and F-score 0.96 on intersection of TRUSST and ChIP-network. We provide a HTTP REST API for our code to facilitate usage. Availibility: Source code and datasets are available for download on GitHub: https://github.com/samanfrm/modex.
Keywords: Biomedical text mining; Gene regulatory network; Information extraction; Name entity recognition; Gene regulatory annotation; Mode of regulation extraction

Omar A. Sheikh Al-Shabab,
Textual source and assertion: Sale’s translation of the Holy Quran,
Journal of King Saud University - Languages and Translation,
Volume 24, Issue 1,
2012,
Pages 1-21,
ISSN 2210-8319,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jksult.2011.09.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2210831911000397)
Abstract: Linguistic studies of intertextuality and assertion pose the question of belief systems available to language users. Although not all utterances in a text are easily read as assertions, one can argue that all translated utterances are textual assertions. Still, the making of the Translated Text may benefit from various sources other than the Source Text. Using a hermeneutic textual approach, the present paper studies assertion in language and translation through examining the complex intertextual relations and sources which characterize the translator’s assertions. It studies George Sale’s English translation of the Holy Quran in light of three sources: ST sources, Marracci’s Latin translation, commentaries on Arabic sources, and personal communication. The paper reveals that the source of an utterance is complex and detrimental to the status of the assertions made by the source. The source can be (1) divine, (2) external neutral, (3) external adversary, (4) external opaque (unspecified by speaker), and (5) translator/interpreter. Assertion types relate to the source and show various degrees of commitment to truth: (1) divine assertion, (2) neutral assertion, (3) claim assertion, (4) counterclaim assertion, (5) translational assertions. Parallel structures, lexical choices and informational additions, show that Sale’s English translation made direct use of Marracci’s Latin translation. Sale also used a complex network of sources including Arabic speaking informants. The study shows that translational assertions are the translator’s own assertions, and hence, Sale’s assertions cannot have the power of the Divine Word of God. Still, Sale’s great contribution lies in interpreting his sources and in the creative formulation of a standard English translation.
Keywords: Sale’s translation of the Quran; Hermeneutic readings; Translational assertions; Levels of intertextuality; Source Text; Translated Text

Maheen Siddiqui, Roseli S. Wedemann, Henrik Jeldtoft Jensen,
Avalanches and generalized memory associativity in a network model for conscious and unconscious mental functioning,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 490,
2018,
Pages 127-138,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2017.08.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437117307288)
Abstract: We explore statistical characteristics of avalanches associated with the dynamics of a complex-network model, where two modules corresponding to sensorial and symbolic memories interact, representing unconscious and conscious mental processes. The model illustrates Freud’s ideas regarding the neuroses and that consciousness is related with symbolic and linguistic memory activity in the brain. It incorporates the Stariolo–Tsallis generalization of the Boltzmann Machine in order to model memory retrieval and associativity. In the present work, we define and measure avalanche size distributions during memory retrieval, in order to gain insight regarding basic aspects of the functioning of these complex networks. The avalanche sizes defined for our model should be related to the time consumed and also to the size of the neuronal region which is activated, during memory retrieval. This allows the qualitative comparison of the behaviour of the distribution of cluster sizes, obtained during fMRI measurements of the propagation of signals in the brain, with the distribution of avalanche sizes obtained in our simulation experiments. This comparison corroborates the indication that the Nonextensive Statistical Mechanics formalism may indeed be more well suited to model the complex networks which constitute brain and mental structure.
Keywords: Consciousness–unconsciousness; Neuroses; Self-organized neural networks; Boltzmann machine; Generalized simulated annealing; Avalanches

Nengcheng Chen, Yan Zhang, Wenying Du, Yingbing Li, Min Chen, Xiang Zheng,
KE-CNN: A new social sensing method for extracting geographical attributes from text semantic features and its application in Wuhan, China,
Computers, Environment and Urban Systems,
Volume 88,
2021,
101629,
ISSN 0198-9715,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compenvurbsys.2021.101629.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0198971521000363)
Abstract: Social sensing is an analytical method to study the interaction between human and space through extracting reliable information from massive volunteered information data. During the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, there are a large number of Internet social sensing data. However, most of them lack geographic attribute. In order to resolve this problem, this paper proposes a convolutional neural network geographic classification model based on keyword extraction and synonym substitution (KE-CNN) which could determine the geographic attribute by extracting the semantic features from text data. Besides, we realizes the non-contact pandemic social sensing and construct the co-word complex network by capturing the spatiotemporal behaviour of a large number of people. Our research found that (1) mining co-word network can obtain most public opinion information of pandemic events, (2) KE-CNN model improves the accuracy by 5%–15% compared with the traditional machine learning method. Through this method, we could effectively establish medical, catering, railway station, education and other types of text feature set, supplement the missing spatial data tags, and achieve a good geographical seamless social sensing.
Keywords: Social sensing; COVID-19; Geographic attributes; Social media; GIS

Álvaro Cabana, Juan C. Valle-Lisboa, Brita Elvevåg, Eduardo Mizraji,
Detecting order–disorder transitions in discourse: Implications for schizophrenia,
Schizophrenia Research,
Volume 131, Issues 1–3,
2011,
Pages 157-164,
ISSN 0920-9964,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2011.04.026.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920996411002337)
Abstract: Several psychiatric and neurological conditions affect the semantic organization and content of a patient's speech. Specifically, the discourse of patients with schizophrenia is frequently characterized as lacking coherence. The evaluation of disturbances in discourse is often used in diagnosis and in assessing treatment efficacy, and is an important factor in prognosis. Measuring these deviations, such as “loss of meaning” and incoherence, is difficult and requires substantial human effort. Computational procedures can be employed to characterize the nature of the anomalies in discourse. We present a set of new tools derived from network theory and information science that may assist in empirical and clinical studies of communication patterns in patients, and provide the foundation for future automatic procedures. First we review information science and complex network approaches to measuring semantic coherence, and then we introduce a representation of discourse that allows for the computation of measures of disorganization. Finally we apply these tools to speech transcriptions from patients and a healthy participant, illustrating the implications and potential of this novel framework.
Keywords: Discourse trajectory; Incoherent speech; Complex networks; Topic entropy; Schizophrenia

M. Grilo, I.S. Fadigas, J.G.V. Miranda, M.V. Cunha, R.L.S. Monteiro, H.B.B. Pereira,
Robustness in semantic networks based on cliques,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 472,
2017,
Pages 94-102,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.12.087.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437116310743)
Abstract: Here, we present a study on how the structure of semantic networks based on cliques (specifically, article titles) behaves when vertex removal strategies (i.e., random and uniform vertex removal — RUR, highest degree vertex removal — HDR, and highest intermediation centrality vertex removal — HICR) are applied to this type of network. We propose a method for calculation of the average size of the small components and we identify the existence of a fraction (fp) where the topological structure of the network changes. Semantic networks based on cliques maintain the small-world phenomenon when subjected to RUR, HDR and HICR for fractions of removed vertices less than or equal to fp.
Keywords: Semantic networks based on cliques; Vertex removal strategies; Robustness; Complex networks; Critical fraction

Yingying Xu, Shengrong Zou, Aihua Gu, Li Wei, Ta Zhou,
Research on the complex network of the UNSPSC ontology,
Physics Procedia,
Volume 24, Part C,
2012,
Pages 1863-1867,
ISSN 1875-3892,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phpro.2012.02.274.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1875389212003173)
Abstract: The UNSPSC ontology mainly applies to the classification system of the e-business and governments buying the worldwide products and services, and supports the logic structure of classification of the products and services. In this paper, the related technologies of the complex network were applied to analyzing the structure of the ontology. The concept of the ontology was corresponding to the node of the complex network, and the relationship of the ontology concept was corresponding to the edge of the complex network. With existing methods of analysis and performance indicators in the complex network, analyzing the degree distribution and community of the ontology, and the research will help evaluate the concept of the ontology, classify the concept of the ontology and improve the efficiency of semantic matching.
Keywords: UNSPSC; ontology; complex network; degree distribution; community

Edilson A. Corrêa, Vanessa Q. Marinho, Diego R. Amancio,
Semantic flow in language networks discriminates texts by genre and publication date,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 557,
2020,
124895,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2020.124895.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437120304635)
Abstract: We propose a framework to characterize documents based on their semantic flow. The proposed framework encompasses a network-based model that connected sentences based on their semantic similarity. Semantic fields are detected using standard community detection methods. As the story unfolds, transitions between semantic fields are represented in Markov networks, which in turn are characterized via network motifs (subgraphs). Here we show that different book characteristics (such as genre and publication date) are discriminated by the adopted semantic flow representation. Remarkably, even without a systematic optimization of parameters, philosophy and investigative books were discriminated with an accuracy rate of 92.5%. While the objective of this study is not to create a text classification method, we believe that semantic flow features could be used in traditional network-based models of texts that capture only syntactical/stylistic information to improve the characterization of texts.
Keywords: Complex networks; Semantic networks; Co-occurrence networks; Language networks; Word embeddings; Network embeddings

Xiaohua Ke, Yongqiang Zeng, Qinghua Ma, Lin Zhu,
Complex dynamics of text analysis,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 415,
2014,
Pages 307-314,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2014.08.022.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437114007006)
Abstract: This paper presents a novel method for the analysis of nonlinear text quality in Chinese language. Texts produced by university students in China were represented as scale-free networks (word adjacency model), from which typical network features such as the in/outdegree, clustering coefficient and network dynamics were obtained. The method integrates the classical concepts of network feature representation and text quality series variation. The analytical and numerical scheme leads to a parameter space representation that constitutes a valid alternative to represent the network features. The results reveal that complex network features of different text qualities can be clearly revealed and applied to potential applications in other instances of text analysis.
Keywords: Complex network; Text analysis; Text quality series variation; Network feature

Eduardo Xamena, Nélida Beatriz Brignole, Ana Gabriela Maguitman,
Structural analysis of relevance propagation models,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 234,
2021,
107563,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2021.107563.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S095070512100825X)
Abstract: Relevance relations constitute the core of information retrieval. Topical ontologies, such as collaborative webpage classification projects, can provide a basis for identifying and analyzing such relations. New meaningful relevance relations can be automatically inferred from these ontologies by composing existing ones. In this work, several relevance propagation models are analyzed in terms of complex network theory. Structural properties such as Characteristic path length, Clustering coefficient and Degree distribution are computed over the models in order to understand the nature of each underlying network. This analysis raises interesting points about the Small-world and Scale-free structure of some relevance propagation models. Moreover, other connectivity and centrality measures are computed to gain additional insight into the topology of relevance. Finally, the analysis is complemented by providing visualizations of the k-core decomposition of different relevance propagation models. To illustrate the generalizability of the proposed methodology the analysis is carried out on an ontology from a different domain. The major theoretical implication of this analysis is the derivation of new instruments to typify semantic networks derived from relevance relations. The results can be exploited in a pragmatic way, as the parameters and properties derived by this analysis can serve as prior knowledge to algorithms for the automatic or semi-automatic construction of semantic networks.
Keywords: Relevance propagation; Topic ontologies; Complex networks; Topological analysis

Diego R. Amancio, Maria G.V. Nunes, Osvaldo N. Oliveira, Luciano da F. Costa,
Extractive summarization using complex networks and syntactic dependency,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 391, Issue 4,
2012,
Pages 1855-1864,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2011.10.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437111007953)
Abstract: The realization that statistical physics methods can be applied to analyze written texts represented as complex networks has led to several developments in natural language processing, including automatic summarization and evaluation of machine translation. Most importantly, so far only a few metrics of complex networks have been used and therefore there is ample opportunity to enhance the statistics-based methods as new measures of network topology and dynamics are created. In this paper, we employ for the first time the metrics betweenness, vulnerability and diversity to analyze written texts in Brazilian Portuguese. Using strategies based on diversity metrics, a better performance in automatic summarization is achieved in comparison to previous work employing complex networks. With an optimized method the Rouge score (an automatic evaluation method used in summarization) was 0.5089, which is the best value ever achieved for an extractive summarizer with statistical methods based on complex networks for Brazilian Portuguese. Furthermore, the diversity metric can detect keywords with high precision, which is why we believe it is suitable to produce good summaries. It is also shown that incorporating linguistic knowledge through a syntactic parser does enhance the performance of the automatic summarizers, as expected, but the increase in the Rouge score is only minor. These results reinforce the suitability of complex network methods for improving automatic summarizers in particular, and treating text in general.
Keywords: Summarization; Complex networks; Diversity metrics; Entropy; Syntactical dependency

Filipi N. Silva, Diego R. Amancio, Maria Bardosova, Luciano da F. Costa, Osvaldo N. Oliveira,
Using network science and text analytics to produce surveys in a scientific topic,
Journal of Informetrics,
Volume 10, Issue 2,
2016,
Pages 487-502,
ISSN 1751-1577,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joi.2016.03.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1751157715301966)
Abstract: The use of science to understand its own structure is becoming popular, but understanding the organization of knowledge areas is still limited because some patterns are only discoverable with proper computational treatment of large-scale datasets. In this paper, we introduce a framework to combine network-based methodologies and text analytics to construct the taxonomy of science fields. The methodology is illustrated with application to two topics: complex networks (CN) and photonic crystals (PC). We built citation networks using data from the Web of Science and used a community detection algorithm for partitioning to obtain science maps for the two topics. We also created an importance index for text analytics, which is employed to extract keywords that define the communities and, combined with network topology metrics, to generate dendrograms of relatedness among subtopics. Interesting patterns emerging from the analysis included identification of two well-defined communities in PC area, which is consistent with the known existence of two distinct communities of researchers in the area: telecommunication engineers and physicists. With the methodology, it was also possible to assess the interdisciplinary nature and time evolution of subtopics defined by the keywords. The automatic tools described here are potentially useful not only to provide an overview of scientific areas but also to assist scientists in performing systematic research on a specific topic.
Keywords: Entropy; Networks; Scientific map; Photonic crystals; Pattern recognition

Huajiao Li, Haizhong An, Yue Wang, Jiachen Huang, Xiangyun Gao,
Evolutionary features of academic articles co-keyword network and keywords co-occurrence network: Based on two-mode affiliation network,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 450,
2016,
Pages 657-669,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.01.017.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037843711600025X)
Abstract: Keeping abreast of trends in the articles and rapidly grasping a body of article’s key points and relationship from a holistic perspective is a new challenge in both literature research and text mining. As the important component, keywords can present the core idea of the academic article. Usually, articles on a single theme or area could share one or some same keywords, and we can analyze topological features and evolution of the articles co-keyword networks and keywords co-occurrence networks to realize the in-depth analysis of the articles. This paper seeks to integrate statistics, text mining, complex networks and visualization to analyze all of the academic articles on one given theme, complex network(s). All 5944 “complex networks” articles that were published between 1990 and 2013 and are available on the Web of Science are extracted. Based on the two-mode affiliation network theory, a new frontier of complex networks, we constructed two different networks, one taking the articles as nodes, the co-keyword relationships as edges and the quantity of co-keywords as the weight to construct articles co-keyword network, and another taking the articles’ keywords as nodes, the co-occurrence relationships as edges and the quantity of simultaneous co-occurrences as the weight to construct keyword co-occurrence network. An integrated method for analyzing the topological features and evolution of the articles co-keyword network and keywords co-occurrence networks is proposed, and we also defined a new function to measure the innovation coefficient of the articles in annual level. This paper provides a useful tool and process for successfully achieving in-depth analysis and rapid understanding of the trends and relationships of articles in a holistic perspective.
Keywords: Articles co-keyword network; Keywords co-occurrence network; Two-mode affiliation network; Topological features evolution; Innovation coefficient

Anjali Shishodia, Priyanka Verma, Vijaya Dixit,
Supplier evaluation for resilient project driven supply chain,
Computers & Industrial Engineering,
Volume 129,
2019,
Pages 465-478,
ISSN 0360-8352,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2019.02.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360835219300804)
Abstract: Project-based organizations are increasingly becoming dependent on suppliers because of an upward trend of subcontracting and an emphasis on core competencies. Projects can be viewed as complex networks consisting of several interdependent actors, and among them, suppliers are important entities. In project-based firms, the demand of the material supply chain is driven by the material requirement of the project, which is referred to as project-driven supply chains (PDSCs). PDSCs couple off-site supply chain activities (i.e., production, logistics, and inventory) with on-site project activities (i.e., scheduling, resource planning, and allocation), and thus exposure of this integration to any disruption may impede the progress of the project. This study evaluates the resilience capacity of existing suppliers of PDSC. More precisely, the objectives of the study are to determine the factors influencing supplier’s resilience in the context of PDSCs and to compute suppliers’ resilience scores. The factors are identified using published literature and scores are computed using fuzzy linguistic guided order weighted aggregation (FLQ-OWA) technique. The proposed methodology is implemented in a real project case (construction of hospital/health care facility). The computed resilience scores enable activity-wise analysis of supplier’s resilience which in turn, helps in classifying existing suppliers in distinct groups characterized by their resilience capability and providing early warning signals to the top managers of contractor’s organization to work proactively with all corrective measures planned at the onset of the project.
Keywords: Project risk; Project-driven supply chain (PDSC); Supplier resilience; Construction project; Supplier evaluation

Srinivas Rangarajan, Aditya Bhan, Prodromos Daoutidis,
Language-oriented rule-based reaction network generation and analysis: Description of RING,
Computers & Chemical Engineering,
Volume 45,
2012,
Pages 114-123,
ISSN 0098-1354,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compchemeng.2012.06.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0098135412001846)
Abstract: The input and output formats, and the structure of Rule Input Network Generator (RING), a computational tool for generation and analysis of complex reaction networks, are described with reference to the underlying algorithms from Cheminformatics and graph theory. RING consists of three modules: (a) a compiler that translates inputs written as a program in an English-like reaction language into internal representations and instructions, (b) a network generator that constructs an exhaustive reaction network from reaction rules and initial reactants specified, and (c) a post-processing module that can extract pathways, mechanisms, or lumps from the network based on user-specified instructions. RING can be used, in a rule-based manner, for constructing a large and complex reaction network from a set of elementary/overall reaction rules, and for elucidating transformations occurring in these networks through identifying pathways and mechanisms to specified products. RING is available open under GNU Lesser GPL.
Keywords: Rule-based network generation; Reaction network analysis; Pathway analysis; Mechanism elucidation; Domain specific language interface

Fausto Milletari, Seyed-Ahmad Ahmadi, Christine Kroll, Annika Plate, Verena Rozanski, Juliana Maiostre, Johannes Levin, Olaf Dietrich, Birgit Ertl-Wagner, Kai Bötzel, Nassir Navab,
Hough-CNN: Deep learning for segmentation of deep brain regions in MRI and ultrasound,
Computer Vision and Image Understanding,
Volume 164,
2017,
Pages 92-102,
ISSN 1077-3142,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cviu.2017.04.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1077314217300620)
Abstract: In this work we propose a novel approach to perform segmentation by leveraging the abstraction capabilities of convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Our method is based on Hough voting, a strategy that allows for fully automatic localisation and segmentation of the anatomies of interest. This approach does not only use the CNN classification outcomes, but it also implements voting by exploiting the features produced by the deepest portion of the network. We show that this learning-based segmentation method is robust, multi-region, flexible and can be easily adapted to different modalities. In the attempt to show the capabilities and the behaviour of CNNs when they are applied to medical image analysis, we perform a systematic study of the performances of six different network architectures, conceived according to state-of-the-art criteria, in various situations. We evaluate the impact of both different amount of training data and different data dimensionality (2D, 2.5D and 3D) on the final results. We show results on both MRI and transcranial US volumes depicting respectively 26 regions of the basal ganglia and the midbrain.
Keywords: Convolutional neural networks; Deep learning; Segmentation; Hough voting; Hough CNN; Ultrasound; MRI

Renaud Lambiotte, Vincent D. Blondel, Cristobald de Kerchove, Etienne Huens, Christophe Prieur, Zbigniew Smoreda, Paul Van Dooren,
Geographical dispersal of mobile communication networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 387, Issue 21,
2008,
Pages 5317-5325,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2008.05.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437108004342)
Abstract: In this paper, we analyze statistical properties of a communication network constructed from the records of a mobile phone company. The network consists of 2.5 million customers that have placed 810 million communications (phone calls and text messages) over a period of 6 months and for whom we have geographical home localization information. It is shown that the degree distribution in this network has a power-law degree distribution k−5 and that the probability that two customers are connected by a link follows a gravity model, i.e. decreases as d−2, where d is the distance between the customers. We also consider the geographical extension of communication triangles and we show that communication triangles are not only composed of geographically adjacent nodes but that they may extend over large distances. This last property is not captured by the existing models of geographical networks and in a last section we propose a new model that reproduces the observed property. Our model, which is based on the migration and on the local adaptation of agents, is then studied analytically and the resulting predictions are confirmed by computer simulations.
Keywords: Complex networks; Social networks; Mobile phone; Small-world

Mads Holten Rasmussen, Maxime Lefrançois, Pieter Pauwels, Christian Anker Hviid, Jan Karlshøj,
Managing interrelated project information in AEC Knowledge Graphs,
Automation in Construction,
Volume 108,
2019,
102956,
ISSN 0926-5805,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2019.102956.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0926580519300378)
Abstract: In the architecture, engineering and construction (AEC) industry stakeholders from different companies and backgrounds collaborate in realising a common goal being some physical structure. The exact goal is typically not known from the beginning, and throughout all design stages, new decisions are made - similarly to other design industries [1]. As a result, the design must adapt and subsequent consequences follow. With working methods being predominantly document-centric, highly interrelated and rapidly changing design data in a complex network of decisions, requirements and product specifications is primarily captured in static documents. In this paper, we consider a purely data-driven approach based on semantic web technologies and an earlier proposed Ontology for Property Management (OPM). The main contribution of this work consists of extensions for OPM to account for new competency questions including the description of property reliability and the reasoning logic behind derived properties. The secondary contribution is the specification of a homogeneous way to generate parametric queries for managing an OPM-compliant AEC Knowledge Graph (AEC-KG). A software library for operating an OPM-compliant AEC-KG is further presented in the form of an OPM Query Generator (OPM-QG). The library generates SPARQL 1.1 queries to query and manipulate construction project Knowledge Graphs represented using OPM. The OPM ontology aligns with latest developments in the W3C Community Group on Linked Building Data and suggests an approach to working with design data in a distributed environment using separate graphs for explicit facts and for materialised, deduced data. Finally, we evaluate the suggested approach using an open-source software artefact developed using OPM and OPM-QG, demonstrated online with an actual building Knowledge Graph. The particular design task evaluated is performing heat loss calculations for spaces of a future building using an AEC-KG described using domain- and project specific extensions of the Building Topology Ontology (BOT) in combination with OPM. With this work, we demonstrate how a typical engineering task can be accomplished and managed in an evolving design environment, thereby providing the engineers with insights to support decision making as changes occur. The application uses a strict division between the client viewer and the actual data model holding design logic, and can easily be extended to support other design tasks.
Keywords: Linked data; Building information modelling; Complex design; Ontology; Inference; Information exchange; BIM; AEC Knowledge Graph; Linked building data

Thiago Christiano Silva, Liang Zhao,
High-level pattern-based classification via tourist walks in networks,
Information Sciences,
Volume 294,
2015,
Pages 109-126,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2014.09.048.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025514009608)
Abstract: In this paper, we present a hybrid classification technique, which combines the decisions of low- and high-level classifiers. The low-level term realizes the classification task considering only the input data’s physical features, such as geometrical or statistical characteristics. In contrast, the high-level classification process checks the compliance of the new test instances against the pattern formations of each class that composes the training data. For this end, we extract suitable organizational and topological descriptors of a network that is constructed from the input data. With these descriptors, we show that the high-level term has the ability of detecting data patterns with semantic and global meanings. Here, the input data’s pattern formations are extracted by utilizing the dynamical information generated from several tourist walk processes, which are performed on the resulting network. Specifically, weighted combinations of transient and cycle lengths, which are derived variables from the tourist walks, are employed. Moreover, we show an effective method for calibrating the learning weights of these terms by using a statistical approach. Furthermore, we show that the tourist’s memory size is related to what extent one may capture organizational and complex features of the network. This means that local, quasi-local, and global features can be extracted, depending on the value of memory size parameter. Still in this work, we uncover the existence of a critical memory length, here denominated complex saturation, where any values larger than this critical point make no changes in the behaviors of the transient and cycle lengths. We also investigate several artificial and real-world situations where the low-level term alone fails to identify intrinsic data patterns, but the high-level term is able to perform well. Our investigation suggests that the proposed technique is able to improve the already optimized performance of traditional classification techniques. Finally, we apply the proposed technique in recognizing handwritten digits images and interesting results are obtained.
Keywords: High-level classification; Tourist walk; Supervised learning; Complex network; Machine learning; Pattern recognition

Viviane Deslandes, Luiz R.R. Faria, Marcelo E. Borges, Marcio R. Pie,
The structure of an avian syllable syntax network,
Behavioural Processes,
Volume 106,
2014,
Pages 53-59,
ISSN 0376-6357,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.beproc.2014.04.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0376635714001120)
Abstract: A common result in recent linguistic studies on word association networks is that their topology can often be described by Zipf's law, in which most words have few associations, whereas a few words are highly connected. However, little is known about syntactic networks in more rudimentary communication systems, which could represent a window into the early stages of language evolution. In this study, we investigate the syntactic network formed by syllable associations in the song of the oscine bird Troglodytes musculus. We use methods recently developed in the context of the study of complex networks to assess topological characteristics in the syntactic networks of T. musculus. We found statistically significant evidence for nestedness in the syllable association network of T. musculus, indicating network organization around a core of commonly used notes, small-world features, and a non-random degree distribution. Our analyses suggest the possibility of a balance between the maintenance of core notes and the acquisition/loss of rare notes through both cultural drift and improvisation. These results underscore the usefulness of investigating communication networks of other animal species in uncovering the initial steps in the evolution of complex syntax networks.
Keywords: House wren; Language evolution; Nestedness; Network; Oscines; Song; Syntax; Syllables; Troglodytes musculus

Srinivas Rangarajan, Ted Kaminski, Eric Van Wyk, Aditya Bhan, Prodromos Daoutidis,
Language-oriented rule-based reaction network generation and analysis: Algorithms of RING,
Computers & Chemical Engineering,
Volume 64,
2014,
Pages 124-137,
ISSN 0098-1354,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compchemeng.2014.02.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0098135414000398)
Abstract: The underlying algorithms of the language interface and post-generation analysis modules in RING, a network generation and analysis tool, are discussed. The front-end is a domain-specific reaction language developed with Silver, a meta-language based on attribute grammars. The language compiler translates user inputs written as a program into internal instructions, catches syntactic and semantic errors, and performs domain-specific optimization to speed up execution. In addition to generating reaction networks, RING allows post-processing analysis options to: (a) obtain reaction pathways and overall mechanisms from initial reactants to desired products using graph traversal algorithms, (b) group together isomers to reduce the size of the network through a novel molecule hashing technique, (c) calculate thermochemical quantities through semi-empirical methods such as group additivity, and (d) formulate and solve kinetic models of the entire or lumped complex network based on a rule-based kinetics specification scheme.
Keywords: Automated reaction network generation; Isomer lumping; Reaction network analysis; Kinetic modeling; Domain-specific languages; Extensible languages

Shuiyuan Yu, Haitao Liu, Chunshan Xu,
Statistical properties of Chinese phonemic networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 390, Issue 7,
2011,
Pages 1370-1380,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2010.12.019.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437110010514)
Abstract: The study of properties of speech sound systems is of great significance in understanding the human cognitive mechanism and the working principles of speech sound systems. Some properties of speech sound systems, such as the listener-oriented feature and the talker-oriented feature, have been unveiled with the statistical study of phonemes in human languages and the research of the interrelations between human articulatory gestures and the corresponding acoustic parameters. With all the phonemes of speech sound systems treated as a coherent whole, our research, which focuses on the dynamic properties of speech sound systems in operation, investigates some statistical parameters of Chinese phoneme networks based on real text and dictionaries. The findings are as follows: phonemic networks have high connectivity degrees and short average distances; the degrees obey normal distribution and the weighted degrees obey power law distribution; vowels enjoy higher priority than consonants in the actual operation of speech sound systems; the phonemic networks have high robustness against targeted attacks and random errors. In addition, for investigating the structural properties of a speech sound system, a statistical study of dictionaries is conducted, which shows the higher frequency of shorter words and syllables and the tendency that the longer a word is, the shorter the syllables composing it are. From these structural properties and dynamic properties one can derive the following conclusion: the static structure of a speech sound system tends to promote communication efficiency and save articulation effort while the dynamic operation of this system gives preference to reliable transmission and easy recognition. In short, a speech sound system is an effective, efficient and reliable communication system optimized in many aspects.
Keywords: Phonemic network; Complex network; Speech sound system

Ying Ding,
Scientific collaboration and endorsement: Network analysis of coauthorship and citation networks,
Journal of Informetrics,
Volume 5, Issue 1,
2011,
Pages 187-203,
ISSN 1751-1577,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joi.2010.10.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1751157710000957)
Abstract: Scientific collaboration and endorsement are well-established research topics which utilize three kinds of methods: survey/questionnaire, bibliometrics, and complex network analysis. This paper combines topic modeling and path-finding algorithms to determine whether productive authors tend to collaborate with or cite researchers with the same or different interests, and whether highly cited authors tend to collaborate with or cite each other. Taking information retrieval as a test field, the results show that productive authors tend to directly coauthor with and closely cite colleagues sharing the same research interests; they do not generally collaborate directly with colleagues having different research topics, but instead directly or indirectly cite them; and highly cited authors do not generally coauthor with each other, but closely cite each other.
Keywords: Scientific collaboration; Scientific endorsement; Topic modeling; Path-finding algorithm

Carlos F. Daganzo,
The cell transmission model, part II: Network traffic,
Transportation Research Part B: Methodological,
Volume 29, Issue 2,
1995,
Pages 79-93,
ISSN 0191-2615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0191-2615(94)00022-R.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/019126159400022R)
Abstract: This article shows how the evolution of multi-commodity traffic flows over complex networks can be predicted over time, based on a simple macroscopic computer representation of traffic flow that is consistent with the kinematic wave theory under all traffic conditions. The method does not use ad hoc procedures to treat special situations. After a brief review of the basic model for one link, the article describes how three-legged junctions can be modeled. It then introduces a numerical procedure for networks, assuming that a time-varying origin-destination (O-D) table is given and that the proportion of turns at every junction is known. These assumptions are reasonable for numerical analysis of disaster evacuation plans. The results are then extended to the case where, instead of the turning proportions, the best routes to each destination from every junction are known at all times. For technical reasons explained in the text, the procedure is more complicated in this case, requiring more computer memory and more time for execution. The effort is estimated to be about an order of magnitude greater than for the static traffic assignment problem on a network of the same size. The procedure is ideally suited for parallel computing. It is hoped that the results in the article will lead to more realistic models of freeway flow, disaster evacuations and dynamic traffic assignment for the evening commute.

Ofilia I. Psomadaki, Charalampos A. Dimoulas, George M. Kalliris, Gregory Paschalidis,
Digital storytelling and audience engagement in cultural heritage management: A collaborative model based on the Digital City of Thessaloniki,
Journal of Cultural Heritage,
Volume 36,
2019,
Pages 12-22,
ISSN 1296-2074,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.culher.2018.07.016.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1296207417302583)
Abstract: Cities are complex, networked and continuously changing social ecosystems, shaped and transformed through the interaction of different interests and ambitions. They are linked to places, where various aspects of past events are projected and expressed by means of personal memories and narrations (urban memory), representing a promise for future: a vision of freedom, creativity, opportunity and prosperity. At the same time, technology is currently promoting unprecedented changes in urban areas, which are often marked as smart city developments. This paper studies the history of cultural and creative industries, bringing forward the dedicated digital storytelling strategies that promote active audience engagement in urban cultural heritage. A collaborative model is proposed and analyzed (in multiple perspectives), aiming at providing an integrated manner for heritage documentation, management and dissemination. The development deals with the Digital City of Thessaloniki, Greece, a big city, not a boundless one, rich in culture, but with rather poor heritage management mechanisms. The research focuses on theoretical and practical aspects for the citizens’ collection and interpretation of “digital heritage” documents (artifacts, places, etc.), resulting in a model that fuels audience engagement and collaboration of cultural organizations. Model-design is validated through state-of-the-art review and formative evaluation processes (both qualitative and quantitative), with an associated SWOT analysis that points out strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats. Although the proposed methodology has been adapted to the needs of a particular (digital) city, the current paper goes beyond a case study, as it brings forward novel technological and methodological guidelines, which could be successfully deployed in districts with similar cultural, geographical, and technical features.
Keywords: Collaborative heritage management; Mediated cultural experience; Non-linear storytelling; Arts participation; Audience engagement; Crowdsourcing; Heritage policy
