Claudia Coronnello, Michele Tumminello, Salvatore Miccichè,
Gene-based and semantic structure of the Gene Ontology as a complex network,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 458,
2016,
Pages 313-328,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.03.062.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437116300607)
Abstract: The last decade has seen the advent and consolidation of ontology based tools for the identification and biological interpretation of classes of genes, such as the Gene Ontology. The Gene Ontology (GO) is constantly evolving over time. The information accumulated time-by-time and included in the GO is encoded in the definition of terms and in the setting up of semantic relations amongst terms. Here we investigate the Gene Ontology from a complex network perspective. We consider the semantic network of terms naturally associated with the semantic relationships provided by the Gene Ontology consortium. Moreover, the GO is a natural example of bipartite network of terms and genes. Here we are interested in studying the properties of the projected network of terms, i.e. a gene-based weighted network of GO terms, in which a link between any two terms is set if at least one gene is annotated in both terms. One aim of the present paper is to compare the structural properties of the semantic and the gene-based network. The relative importance of terms is very similar in the two networks, but the community structure changes. We show that in some cases GO terms that appear to be distinct from a semantic point of view are instead connected, and appear in the same community when considering their gene content. The identification of such gene-based communities of terms might therefore be the basis of a simple protocol aiming at improving the semantic structure of GO. Information about terms that share large gene content might also be important from a biomedical point of view, as it might reveal how genes over-expressed in a certain term also affect other biological processes, molecular functions and cellular components not directly linked according to GO semantics.
Keywords: Complex systems; Networks; Bipartite system; Community detection; Ontology; Genes

Jun Wang, Jiaxu Peng, Ou Liu,
A classification approach for less popular webpages based on latent semantic analysis and rough set model,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 42, Issue 1,
2015,
Pages 642-648,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2014.08.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417414004898)
Abstract: Nowadays, with the explosive growth of web information, the webpage classification faces great challenge. Computers have difficulty in understanding the semantic meaning of textual or non-textual webpages. Fortunately, Web 2.0 based collaborative tagging system brings new opportunities to solve this problem. It abstracts structured tags from unstructured content in webpages. However, large numbers of webpages on the Internet are less popular. Their tagging information is sparse, which makes their topic unclear and leads to ambiguous classification. Illuminated by the “ambiguous classification”, we name the less popular webpage “hesitant webpage”. In this paper, we propose an advanced approach for hesitant webpages classification. Firstly, hesitant webpages are divided into bridges, hubs and attached webpages according to their roles on the Internet. Secondly, attached webpages are classified by mining and extending their information in two perspectives. One is the latent semantic analysis (LSA) which is applied to fully explore the semantic meaning of sparse tags. It promotes accurate cognition of webpages semantically close to attached webpages. Another is the proposed density-relation-based rough set model which measures the affiliation degree of attached webpages in different categories. Experiment on real data shows that our approach effectively classifies the hesitant webpages base on the semantic meaning.
Keywords: Webpage classification; Complex network analysis; Rough set; Latent semantic analysis

Sitabhra Sinha, Ashraf Md Izhar, Raj Kumar Pan, Bryan Kenneth Wells,
Network analysis of a corpus of undeciphered Indus civilization inscriptions indicates syntactic organization,
Computer Speech & Language,
Volume 25, Issue 3,
2011,
Pages 639-654,
ISSN 0885-2308,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csl.2010.05.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0885230810000446)
Abstract: Archaeological excavations in the sites of the Indus Valley civilization (2500–1900 BCE) in Pakistan and northwestern India have unearthed a large number of artifacts with inscriptions made up of hundreds of distinct signs. To date, there is no generally accepted decipherment of these sign sequences, and there have been suggestions that the signs could be non-linguistic. Here we apply complex network analysis techniques to a database of available Indus inscriptions, with the aim of detecting patterns indicative of syntactic organization. Our results show the presence of patterns, e.g., recursive structures in the segmentation trees of the sequences, that suggest the existence of a grammar underlying these inscriptions.
Keywords: Linguistic corpus; Indus civilization; Network analysis

Roman Bartusiak, Łukasz Augustyniak, Tomasz Kajdanowicz, Przemysław Kazienko, Maciej Piasecki,
WordNet2Vec: Corpora agnostic word vectorization method,
Neurocomputing,
Volumes 326–327,
2019,
Pages 141-150,
ISSN 0925-2312,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2017.01.121.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217315217)
Abstract: The complex nature of big data resources requires new structuring methods, especially for textual content. WordNet is a good knowledge source for the comprehensive abstraction of natural language as it offers good implementation for many languages. Since WordNet embeds natural language in the form of a complex network, a transformation mechanism, WordNet2Vec, is proposed in this paper. This creates vectors for each word from WordNet. These vectors encapsulate a general position — the role of a given word related to all other words in the given natural language. Any list or set of such vectors contains knowledge about the context of its components within the whole language. This type of word representation can be easily applied to many analytic tasks such as classification or clustering. The usefulness of the WordNet2Vec method is demonstrated in sentiment analysis including the classification of an Amazon opinion text dataset with transfer learning.
Keywords: Natural language structuring; WordNet; WordNet2Vec; Vectorization; Network transformation; Sentiment analysis; Transfer learning; Big data; Complex networks

Guangli Zhu, Zhuangzhuang Pan, Qiaoyun Wang, Shunxiang Zhang, Kuan-Ching Li,
Building multi-subtopic Bi-level network for micro-blog hot topic based on feature Co-Occurrence and semantic community division,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 170,
2020,
102815,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2020.102815.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804520302861)
Abstract: The multi-subtopic is challenging to be understood timely and comprehensively due to micro-blog characteristics, such as low-value density, and fast update speed. For such an issue, this paper proposes a Multi-Subtopic Bi-level Network (MSBN) for micro-blog hot topics based on feature co-occurrence and semantic community division to support users understanding better the subject. First, the highlighted words are extracted by combining two coefficients including the micro-blog importance (e.g., the number of comments and the number of praises) and the time decay. The compound co-occurrence rates (i.e., global and local co-occurrence rates) are used to measure the correlation strength between any two highlighted words, while the global semantic of a micro-blog hot topic can be shown as a complex network whose nodes are the extracted feature words and edges are relations between any two feature words. Next, an improved weighted modularity function is proposed as a criterion for the community division. The complex network of a topic is divided into some semantic communities, where each is regarded as a subtopic of the given micro-blog topic. Subsequently, the genetic algorithm is used to calculate the maximum of weighted modularity and achieve community division of complex networks, so finally, the terminal location of each micro-blog in a different semantic community is obtained to draw regional location map and analyze the supporting propensity of each region to the micro-blog hot topic. Experimental results show that the proposed model can accurately and effectively represent the multi-subtopic of a micro-blog hot topic in the current time that supports users to discover and understand the micro-blog hot topic, allowing users to identify and understand the concerned differences among different regions for the same micro-blog hot topic.
Keywords: Complex network; Multi-subtopic model; Semantic community division; Complex co-occurrence rates; Genetic algorithm

Ismo T. Koponen, Elina Palmgren, Esko Keski-Vakkuri,
Characterising heavy-tailed networks using q-generalised entropy and q-adjacency kernels,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 566,
2021,
125666,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2020.125666.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037843712030964X)
Abstract: Heavy-tailed networks, which have degree distributions characterised by slower than exponentially bounded tails, are common in many different situations. Some interesting cases, where heavy tails are characterised by inverse powers λ in the range 1<λ<2, arise for associative knowledge networks, and semantic and linguistic networks. In these cases, the differences between the networks are often delicate, calling for robust methods to characterise the differences. Here, we introduce a method for comparing networks using a density matrix based on q-generalised adjacency matrix kernels. It is shown that comparison of networks can then be performed using the q-generalised Kullback–Leibler divergence. In addition, the q-generalised divergence can be interpreted as a q-generalised free energy, which enables the thermodynamic-like macroscopic description of the heavy-tailed networks. The viability of the q-generalised adjacency kernels and the thermodynamic-like description in characterisation of complex networks is demonstrated using a simulated set of networks, which are modular and heavy-tailed with a degree distribution of inverse power law in the range 1<λ<2.
Keywords: Heavy tailed networks; Adjacency kernels; q-entropy; Generalised thermodynamics

Shaojing Sun, Yujia Zhai, Bin Shen, Yibei Chen,
Newspaper coverage of artificial intelligence: A perspective of emerging technologies,
Telematics and Informatics,
Volume 53,
2020,
101433,
ISSN 0736-5853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tele.2020.101433.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736585320300927)
Abstract: The focus of the study is on how newspapers have covered artificial intelligence (AI) over the past decades. Analyzing 1776 news articles culled from four mainstream newspapers (i.e., the New York Times, Washington Post, the Guardian, and USA Today), the study examined the general landscape of media coverage as well as media framing of the topic through a mixed methodology (i.e., automatic content analysis and manual coding). Fourteen major topics (e.g., regulation & policy, risk & weapon) emerged from the accumulated articles. Furthermore, the study found that journalists have used different framing devices, including lexical compounds and argumentation patterns, to frame AI as a sophisticated, powerful, and value-laden issue. Also, different actors (e.g., research communities, governments, business sectors) combined to constitute a complex network in the media discourses.
Keywords: Artificial intelligence; Media; Emerging technology

Belkacem Serrour, Alex Arenas, Sergio Gómez,
Detecting communities of triangles in complex networks using spectral optimization,
Computer Communications,
Volume 34, Issue 5,
2011,
Pages 629-634,
ISSN 0140-3664,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2010.05.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366410002410)
Abstract: The study of the sub-structure of complex networks is of major importance to relate topology and functionality. Many efforts have been devoted to the analysis of the modular structure of networks using the quality function known as modularity. However, generally speaking, the relation between topological modules and functional groups is still unknown, and depends on the semantic of the links. Sometimes, we know in advance that many connections are transitive, and as a consequence, triangles have a specific meaning. Here we propose the study of the modular structure of networks considering triangles as the building blocks of modules. The method generalizes the standard modularity and uses spectral optimization to find its maximum. We compare the partitions obtained with those resulting from the optimization of the standard modularity in several real networks. The results show that the information reported by the analysis of modules of triangles complements the information of the classical modularity analysis.
Keywords: Complex networks; Communities; Triangle modularity; Spectral optimization

Jingchi Jiang, Jichuan Zheng, Chao Zhao, Jia Su, Yi Guan, Qiubin Yu,
Clinical-decision support based on medical literature: A complex network approach,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 459,
2016,
Pages 42-54,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.04.026.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437116301480)
Abstract: In making clinical decisions, clinicians often review medical literature to ensure the reliability of diagnosis, test, and treatment because the medical literature can answer clinical questions and assist clinicians making clinical decisions. Therefore, finding the appropriate literature is a critical problem for clinical-decision support (CDS). First, the present study employs search engines to retrieve relevant literature about patient records. However, the result of the traditional method is usually unsatisfactory. To improve the relevance of the retrieval result, a medical literature network (MLN) based on these retrieved papers is constructed. Then, we show that this MLN has small-world and scale-free properties of a complex network. According to the structural characteristics of the MLN, we adopt two methods to further identify the potential relevant literature in addition to the retrieved literature. By integrating these potential papers into the MLN, a more comprehensive MLN is built to answer the question of actual patient records. Furthermore, we propose a re-ranking model to sort all papers by relevance. We experimentally find that the re-ranking model can improve the normalized discounted cumulative gain of the results. As participants of the Text Retrieval Conference 2015, our clinical-decision method based on the MLN also yields higher scores than the medians in most topics and achieves the best scores for topics: #11 and #12. These research results indicate that our study can be used to effectively assist clinicians in making clinical decisions, and the MLN can facilitate the investigation of CDS.
Keywords: Small-world; Scale-free; Complex network; Medical literature network; Clinical decision support

Didier A. Vega-Oliveros, Pedro Spoljaric Gomes, Evangelos E. Milios, Lilian Berton,
A multi-centrality index for graph-based keyword extraction,
Information Processing & Management,
Volume 56, Issue 6,
2019,
102063,
ISSN 0306-4573,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2019.102063.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457319303267)
Abstract: Keyword extraction aims to capture the main topics of a document and is an important step in natural language processing (NLP) applications. The use of different graph centrality measures has been proposed to extract automatic keywords. However, there is no consensus yet on how these measures compare in this task. Here, we present the multi-centrality index (MCI) approach, which aims to find the optimal combination of word rankings according to the selection of centrality measures. We analyze nine centrality measures (Betweenness, Clustering Coefficient, Closeness, Degree, Eccentricity, Eigenvector, K-Core, PageRank, Structural Holes) for identifying keywords in co-occurrence word-graphs representation of documents. We perform experiments on three datasets of documents and demonstrate that all individual centrality methods achieve similar statistical results, while the proposed MCI approach significantly outperforms the individual centralities, three clustering algorithms, and previously reported results in the literature.
Keywords: Automatic keyword extraction; Centrality measures; Complex networks; Network science; Text mining; Text networks; Clustering

Xushan Peng, Xiaoming Zhang, Yongping Li, Bangquan Liu,
Research on image feature extraction and retrieval algorithms based on convolutional neural network,
Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation,
Volume 69,
2020,
102705,
ISSN 1047-3203,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2019.102705.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320319303268)
Abstract: With the rapid development of mobile Internet and digital technology, people are more and more keen to share pictures on social networks, and online pictures have exploded. How to retrieve similar images from large-scale images has always been a hot issue in the field of image retrieval, and the selection of image features largely affects the performance of image retrieval. The Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), which contains more hidden layers, has more complex network structure and stronger ability of feature learning and expression compared with traditional feature extraction methods. By analyzing the disadvantage that global CNN features cannot effectively describe local details when they act on image retrieval tasks, a strategy of aggregating low-level CNN feature maps to generate local features is proposed. The high-level features of CNN model pay more attention to semantic information, but the low-level features pay more attention to local details. Using the increasingly abstract characteristics of CNN model from low to high. This paper presents a probabilistic semantic retrieval algorithm, proposes a probabilistic semantic hash retrieval method based on CNN, and designs a new end-to-end supervised learning framework, which can simultaneously learn semantic features and hash features to achieve fast image retrieval. Using convolution network, the error rate is reduced to 14.41% in this test set. In three open image libraries, namely Oxford, Holidays and ImageNet, the performance of traditional SIFT-based retrieval algorithms and other CNN-based image retrieval algorithms in tasks are compared and analyzed. The experimental results show that the proposed algorithm is superior to other contrast algorithms in terms of comprehensive retrieval effect and retrieval time.
Keywords: Image retrieval; In-depth learning; Feature extraction; Convolutional neural network

Rui Li, Shunyi Zheng, Ce Zhang, Chenxi Duan, Libo Wang, Peter M. Atkinson,
ABCNet: Attentive bilateral contextual network for efficient semantic segmentation of Fine-Resolution remotely sensed imagery,
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing,
Volume 181,
2021,
Pages 84-98,
ISSN 0924-2716,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2021.09.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924271621002379)
Abstract: Semantic segmentation of remotely sensed imagery plays a critical role in many real-world applications, such as environmental change monitoring, precision agriculture, environmental protection, and economic assessment. Following rapid developments in sensor technologies, vast numbers of fine-resolution satellite and airborne remote sensing images are now available, for which semantic segmentation is potentially a valuable method. However, because of the rich complexity and heterogeneity of information provided with an ever-increasing spatial resolution, state-of-the-art deep learning algorithms commonly adopt complex network structures for segmentation, which often result in significant computational demand. Particularly, the frequently-used fully convolutional network (FCN) relies heavily on fine-grained spatial detail (fine spatial resolution) and contextual information (large receptive fields), both imposing high computational costs. This impedes the practical utility of FCN for real-world applications, especially those requiring real-time data processing. In this paper, we propose a novel Attentive Bilateral Contextual Network (ABCNet), a lightweight convolutional neural network (CNN) with a spatial path and a contextual path. Extensive experiments, including a comprehensive ablation study, demonstrate that ABCNet has strong discrimination capability with competitive accuracy compared with state-of-the-art benchmark methods while achieving significantly increased computational efficiency. Specifically, the proposed ABCNet achieves a 91.3% overall accuracy (OA) on the Potsdam test dataset and outperforms all lightweight benchmark methods significantly. The code is freely available at https://github.com/lironui/ABCNet.
Keywords: Semantic Segmentation; Attention Mechanism; Bilateral Architecture; Convolutional Neural Network; Deep Learning

Long Sheng, Chunguang Li,
English and Chinese languages as weighted complex networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 388, Issue 12,
2009,
Pages 2561-2570,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2009.02.043.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437109001769)
Abstract: In this paper, we analyze statistical properties of English and Chinese written human language within the framework of weighted complex networks. The two language networks are based on an English novel and a Chinese biography, respectively, and both of the networks are constructed in the same way. By comparing the intensity and density of connections between the two networks, we find that high weight connections in Chinese language networks prevail more than those in English language networks. Furthermore, some of the topological and weighted quantities are compared. The results display some differences in the structural organizations between the two language networks. These observations indicate that the two languages may have different linguistic mechanisms and different combinatorial natures.
Keywords: Weighted complex networks; Written human language; Zipf’s law; Power–law distribution

Cao Duong Ly, Van Tu Nguyen, Tan Hung Vo, Sudip Mondal, Sumin Park, Jaeyeop Choi, Thi Thu Ha Vu, Chang-Seok Kim, Junghwan Oh,
Full-view in vivo skin and blood vessels profile segmentation in photoacoustic imaging based on deep learning,
Photoacoustics,
Volume 25,
2022,
100310,
ISSN 2213-5979,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pacs.2021.100310.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213597921000707)
Abstract: Photoacoustic (PA) microscopy allows imaging of the soft biological tissue based on optical absorption contrast and spatial ultrasound resolution. One of the major applications of PA imaging is its characterization of microvasculature. However, the strong PA signal from skin layer overshadowed the subcutaneous blood vessels leading to indirectly reconstruct the PA images in human study. Addressing the present situation, we examined a deep learning (DL) automatic algorithm to achieve high-resolution and high-contrast segmentation for widening PA imaging applications. In this research, we propose a DL model based on modified U-Net for extracting the relationship features between amplitudes of the generated PA signal from skin and underlying vessels. This study illustrates the broader potential of hybrid complex network as an automatic segmentation tool for the in vivo PA imaging. With DL-infused solution, our result outperforms the previous studies with achieved real-time semantic segmentation on large-size high-resolution PA images.
Keywords: Photoacoustic imaging; Segmentation; High resolution; Deep learning; U-Net

Yue-Tian-Yi Zhao, Zi-Yang Jia, Yong Tang, Jason Jie Xiong, Yi-Cheng Zhang,
Quantitative learning strategies based on word networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 491,
2018,
Pages 898-911,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2017.09.097.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437117309858)
Abstract: Learning English requires a considerable effort, but the way that vocabulary is introduced in textbooks is not optimized for learning efficiency. With the increasing population of English learners, learning process optimization will have significant impact and improvement towards English learning and teaching. The recent developments of big data analysis and complex network science provide additional opportunities to design and further investigate the strategies in English learning. In this paper, quantitative English learning strategies based on word network and word usage information are proposed. The strategies integrate the words frequency with topological structural information. By analyzing the influence of connected learned words, the learning weights for the unlearned words and dynamically updating of the network are studied and analyzed. The results suggest that quantitative strategies significantly improve learning efficiency while maintaining effectiveness. Especially, the optimized-weight-first strategy and segmented strategies outperform other strategies. The results provide opportunities for researchers and practitioners to reconsider the way of English teaching and designing vocabularies quantitatively by balancing the efficiency and learning costs based on the word network.
Keywords: Word network; Network analysis; Quantitative linguistics; Vocabulary building; Corpus-based linguistic analysis

Tingting Hou, Xiangjuan Yao, Dunwei Gong,
Community detection in software ecosystem by comprehensively evaluating developer cooperation intensity,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 130,
2021,
106451,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2020.106451.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584920302007)
Abstract: Context
: As soon as the concept of software ecosystem was proposed, it has aroused great interest in both academia and industry. Software ecosystem can be described as a special complex network. Community structures are critical towards understanding not only the network topology but also how the network functions. Traditional community detection algorithms in complex networks mainly utilize the network topology to measure the similarities between nodes. Because of the complexity of information interaction in software ecosystem, only considering the topology structure will lead to unreasonable division of communities.
Objective
: For solving community detection in software ecosystem more reasonably, we present a method of community detection by comprehensively evaluating developer cooperation intensity in software ecosystems.
Method
: First, we combine network topology information and developer interaction information to calculate the developer cooperation intensity, so as to deeply explore the relationship between developers from both topological and semantic properties. Then a community detection algorithm ABDCI is proposed based on the cooperation intensity of developers by referring to the hierarchical clustering idea of Louvain algorithm. Finally, this method is applied to many different types of developer networks in the software ecosystem through GitHub hosting platform.
Results
: Comparing with three classical community detection algorithms, we find that the proposed method can identify a clearer community structure for the developer collaboration network in the software ecosystem.
Conclusion
: Our approach provides an effective and extensible technique for solving the community detection problem of real developer collaboration network in software ecosystem. According to our findings, we conclude that community detection algorithms based on comprehensive topological properties and semantic properties are more suitable for real communities in software ecosystems than traditional single-property algorithms.
Keywords: Software ecosystem; Community detection; Complex network; Cooperation intensity; Louvain algorithm

Alexander Mehler, Olga Pustylnikov, Nils Diewald,
Geography of social ontologies: Testing a variant of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis in the context of Wikipedia,
Computer Speech & Language,
Volume 25, Issue 3,
2011,
Pages 716-740,
ISSN 0885-2308,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csl.2010.05.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0885230810000434)
Abstract: In this article, we test a variant of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis in the area of complex network theory. This is done by analyzing social ontologies as a new resource for automatic language classification. Our method is to solely explore structural features of social ontologies in order to predict family resemblances of languages used by the corresponding communities to build these ontologies. This approach is based on a reformulation of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis in terms of distributed cognition. Starting from a corpus of 160 Wikipedia-based social ontologies, we test our variant of the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis by several experiments, and find out that we outperform the corresponding baselines. All in all, the article develops an approach to classify linguistic networks of tens of thousands of vertices by exploring a small range of mathematically well-established topological indices.
Keywords: Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis; Linguistic networks; Automatic language classification; Social ontologies; Quantitative network analysis

Saman Farahmand, Todd Riley, Kourosh Zarringhalam,
ModEx: A text mining system for extracting mode of regulation of transcription factor-gene regulatory interaction,
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,
Volume 102,
2020,
103353,
ISSN 1532-0464,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2019.103353.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046419302746)
Abstract: Background
Transcription factors (TFs) are proteins that are fundamental to transcription and regulation of gene expression. Each TF may regulate multiple genes and each gene may be regulated by multiple TFs. TFs can act as either activator or repressor of gene expression. This complex network of interactions between TFs and genes underlies many developmental and biological processes and is implicated in several human diseases such as cancer. Hence deciphering the network of TF-gene interactions with information on mode of regulation (activation vs. repression) is an important step toward understanding the regulatory pathways that underlie complex traits. There are many experimental, computational, and manually curated databases of TF-gene interactions. In particular, high-throughput ChIP-Seq datasets provide a large-scale map or transcriptional regulatory interactions. However, these interactions are not annotated with information on context and mode of regulation. Such information is crucial to gain a global picture of gene regulatory mechanisms and can aid in developing machine learning models for applications such as biomarker discovery, prediction of response to therapy, and precision medicine.
Methods
In this work, we introduce a text-mining system to annotate ChIP-Seq derived interaction with such meta data through mining PubMed articles. We evaluate the performance of our system using gold standard small scale manually curated databases.
Results
Our results show that the method is able to accurately extract mode of regulation with F-score 0.77 on TRRUST curated interaction and F-score 0.96 on intersection of TRUSST and ChIP-network. We provide a HTTP REST API for our code to facilitate usage. Availibility: Source code and datasets are available for download on GitHub: https://github.com/samanfrm/modex.
Keywords: Biomedical text mining; Gene regulatory network; Information extraction; Name entity recognition; Gene regulatory annotation; Mode of regulation extraction

Omar A. Sheikh Al-Shabab,
Textual source and assertion: Sale’s translation of the Holy Quran,
Journal of King Saud University - Languages and Translation,
Volume 24, Issue 1,
2012,
Pages 1-21,
ISSN 2210-8319,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jksult.2011.09.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2210831911000397)
Abstract: Linguistic studies of intertextuality and assertion pose the question of belief systems available to language users. Although not all utterances in a text are easily read as assertions, one can argue that all translated utterances are textual assertions. Still, the making of the Translated Text may benefit from various sources other than the Source Text. Using a hermeneutic textual approach, the present paper studies assertion in language and translation through examining the complex intertextual relations and sources which characterize the translator’s assertions. It studies George Sale’s English translation of the Holy Quran in light of three sources: ST sources, Marracci’s Latin translation, commentaries on Arabic sources, and personal communication. The paper reveals that the source of an utterance is complex and detrimental to the status of the assertions made by the source. The source can be (1) divine, (2) external neutral, (3) external adversary, (4) external opaque (unspecified by speaker), and (5) translator/interpreter. Assertion types relate to the source and show various degrees of commitment to truth: (1) divine assertion, (2) neutral assertion, (3) claim assertion, (4) counterclaim assertion, (5) translational assertions. Parallel structures, lexical choices and informational additions, show that Sale’s English translation made direct use of Marracci’s Latin translation. Sale also used a complex network of sources including Arabic speaking informants. The study shows that translational assertions are the translator’s own assertions, and hence, Sale’s assertions cannot have the power of the Divine Word of God. Still, Sale’s great contribution lies in interpreting his sources and in the creative formulation of a standard English translation.
Keywords: Sale’s translation of the Quran; Hermeneutic readings; Translational assertions; Levels of intertextuality; Source Text; Translated Text

Maheen Siddiqui, Roseli S. Wedemann, Henrik Jeldtoft Jensen,
Avalanches and generalized memory associativity in a network model for conscious and unconscious mental functioning,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 490,
2018,
Pages 127-138,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2017.08.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437117307288)
Abstract: We explore statistical characteristics of avalanches associated with the dynamics of a complex-network model, where two modules corresponding to sensorial and symbolic memories interact, representing unconscious and conscious mental processes. The model illustrates Freud’s ideas regarding the neuroses and that consciousness is related with symbolic and linguistic memory activity in the brain. It incorporates the Stariolo–Tsallis generalization of the Boltzmann Machine in order to model memory retrieval and associativity. In the present work, we define and measure avalanche size distributions during memory retrieval, in order to gain insight regarding basic aspects of the functioning of these complex networks. The avalanche sizes defined for our model should be related to the time consumed and also to the size of the neuronal region which is activated, during memory retrieval. This allows the qualitative comparison of the behaviour of the distribution of cluster sizes, obtained during fMRI measurements of the propagation of signals in the brain, with the distribution of avalanche sizes obtained in our simulation experiments. This comparison corroborates the indication that the Nonextensive Statistical Mechanics formalism may indeed be more well suited to model the complex networks which constitute brain and mental structure.
Keywords: Consciousness–unconsciousness; Neuroses; Self-organized neural networks; Boltzmann machine; Generalized simulated annealing; Avalanches

Nengcheng Chen, Yan Zhang, Wenying Du, Yingbing Li, Min Chen, Xiang Zheng,
KE-CNN: A new social sensing method for extracting geographical attributes from text semantic features and its application in Wuhan, China,
Computers, Environment and Urban Systems,
Volume 88,
2021,
101629,
ISSN 0198-9715,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compenvurbsys.2021.101629.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0198971521000363)
Abstract: Social sensing is an analytical method to study the interaction between human and space through extracting reliable information from massive volunteered information data. During the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, there are a large number of Internet social sensing data. However, most of them lack geographic attribute. In order to resolve this problem, this paper proposes a convolutional neural network geographic classification model based on keyword extraction and synonym substitution (KE-CNN) which could determine the geographic attribute by extracting the semantic features from text data. Besides, we realizes the non-contact pandemic social sensing and construct the co-word complex network by capturing the spatiotemporal behaviour of a large number of people. Our research found that (1) mining co-word network can obtain most public opinion information of pandemic events, (2) KE-CNN model improves the accuracy by 5%–15% compared with the traditional machine learning method. Through this method, we could effectively establish medical, catering, railway station, education and other types of text feature set, supplement the missing spatial data tags, and achieve a good geographical seamless social sensing.
Keywords: Social sensing; COVID-19; Geographic attributes; Social media; GIS

Álvaro Cabana, Juan C. Valle-Lisboa, Brita Elvevåg, Eduardo Mizraji,
Detecting order–disorder transitions in discourse: Implications for schizophrenia,
Schizophrenia Research,
Volume 131, Issues 1–3,
2011,
Pages 157-164,
ISSN 0920-9964,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2011.04.026.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920996411002337)
Abstract: Several psychiatric and neurological conditions affect the semantic organization and content of a patient's speech. Specifically, the discourse of patients with schizophrenia is frequently characterized as lacking coherence. The evaluation of disturbances in discourse is often used in diagnosis and in assessing treatment efficacy, and is an important factor in prognosis. Measuring these deviations, such as “loss of meaning” and incoherence, is difficult and requires substantial human effort. Computational procedures can be employed to characterize the nature of the anomalies in discourse. We present a set of new tools derived from network theory and information science that may assist in empirical and clinical studies of communication patterns in patients, and provide the foundation for future automatic procedures. First we review information science and complex network approaches to measuring semantic coherence, and then we introduce a representation of discourse that allows for the computation of measures of disorganization. Finally we apply these tools to speech transcriptions from patients and a healthy participant, illustrating the implications and potential of this novel framework.
Keywords: Discourse trajectory; Incoherent speech; Complex networks; Topic entropy; Schizophrenia

M. Grilo, I.S. Fadigas, J.G.V. Miranda, M.V. Cunha, R.L.S. Monteiro, H.B.B. Pereira,
Robustness in semantic networks based on cliques,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 472,
2017,
Pages 94-102,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.12.087.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437116310743)
Abstract: Here, we present a study on how the structure of semantic networks based on cliques (specifically, article titles) behaves when vertex removal strategies (i.e., random and uniform vertex removal — RUR, highest degree vertex removal — HDR, and highest intermediation centrality vertex removal — HICR) are applied to this type of network. We propose a method for calculation of the average size of the small components and we identify the existence of a fraction (fp) where the topological structure of the network changes. Semantic networks based on cliques maintain the small-world phenomenon when subjected to RUR, HDR and HICR for fractions of removed vertices less than or equal to fp.
Keywords: Semantic networks based on cliques; Vertex removal strategies; Robustness; Complex networks; Critical fraction

Yingying Xu, Shengrong Zou, Aihua Gu, Li Wei, Ta Zhou,
Research on the complex network of the UNSPSC ontology,
Physics Procedia,
Volume 24, Part C,
2012,
Pages 1863-1867,
ISSN 1875-3892,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phpro.2012.02.274.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1875389212003173)
Abstract: The UNSPSC ontology mainly applies to the classification system of the e-business and governments buying the worldwide products and services, and supports the logic structure of classification of the products and services. In this paper, the related technologies of the complex network were applied to analyzing the structure of the ontology. The concept of the ontology was corresponding to the node of the complex network, and the relationship of the ontology concept was corresponding to the edge of the complex network. With existing methods of analysis and performance indicators in the complex network, analyzing the degree distribution and community of the ontology, and the research will help evaluate the concept of the ontology, classify the concept of the ontology and improve the efficiency of semantic matching.
Keywords: UNSPSC; ontology; complex network; degree distribution; community

Edilson A. Corrêa, Vanessa Q. Marinho, Diego R. Amancio,
Semantic flow in language networks discriminates texts by genre and publication date,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 557,
2020,
124895,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2020.124895.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437120304635)
Abstract: We propose a framework to characterize documents based on their semantic flow. The proposed framework encompasses a network-based model that connected sentences based on their semantic similarity. Semantic fields are detected using standard community detection methods. As the story unfolds, transitions between semantic fields are represented in Markov networks, which in turn are characterized via network motifs (subgraphs). Here we show that different book characteristics (such as genre and publication date) are discriminated by the adopted semantic flow representation. Remarkably, even without a systematic optimization of parameters, philosophy and investigative books were discriminated with an accuracy rate of 92.5%. While the objective of this study is not to create a text classification method, we believe that semantic flow features could be used in traditional network-based models of texts that capture only syntactical/stylistic information to improve the characterization of texts.
Keywords: Complex networks; Semantic networks; Co-occurrence networks; Language networks; Word embeddings; Network embeddings

Xiaohua Ke, Yongqiang Zeng, Qinghua Ma, Lin Zhu,
Complex dynamics of text analysis,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 415,
2014,
Pages 307-314,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2014.08.022.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437114007006)
Abstract: This paper presents a novel method for the analysis of nonlinear text quality in Chinese language. Texts produced by university students in China were represented as scale-free networks (word adjacency model), from which typical network features such as the in/outdegree, clustering coefficient and network dynamics were obtained. The method integrates the classical concepts of network feature representation and text quality series variation. The analytical and numerical scheme leads to a parameter space representation that constitutes a valid alternative to represent the network features. The results reveal that complex network features of different text qualities can be clearly revealed and applied to potential applications in other instances of text analysis.
Keywords: Complex network; Text analysis; Text quality series variation; Network feature

Eduardo Xamena, Nélida Beatriz Brignole, Ana Gabriela Maguitman,
Structural analysis of relevance propagation models,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 234,
2021,
107563,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2021.107563.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S095070512100825X)
Abstract: Relevance relations constitute the core of information retrieval. Topical ontologies, such as collaborative webpage classification projects, can provide a basis for identifying and analyzing such relations. New meaningful relevance relations can be automatically inferred from these ontologies by composing existing ones. In this work, several relevance propagation models are analyzed in terms of complex network theory. Structural properties such as Characteristic path length, Clustering coefficient and Degree distribution are computed over the models in order to understand the nature of each underlying network. This analysis raises interesting points about the Small-world and Scale-free structure of some relevance propagation models. Moreover, other connectivity and centrality measures are computed to gain additional insight into the topology of relevance. Finally, the analysis is complemented by providing visualizations of the k-core decomposition of different relevance propagation models. To illustrate the generalizability of the proposed methodology the analysis is carried out on an ontology from a different domain. The major theoretical implication of this analysis is the derivation of new instruments to typify semantic networks derived from relevance relations. The results can be exploited in a pragmatic way, as the parameters and properties derived by this analysis can serve as prior knowledge to algorithms for the automatic or semi-automatic construction of semantic networks.
Keywords: Relevance propagation; Topic ontologies; Complex networks; Topological analysis

Diego R. Amancio, Maria G.V. Nunes, Osvaldo N. Oliveira, Luciano da F. Costa,
Extractive summarization using complex networks and syntactic dependency,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 391, Issue 4,
2012,
Pages 1855-1864,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2011.10.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437111007953)
Abstract: The realization that statistical physics methods can be applied to analyze written texts represented as complex networks has led to several developments in natural language processing, including automatic summarization and evaluation of machine translation. Most importantly, so far only a few metrics of complex networks have been used and therefore there is ample opportunity to enhance the statistics-based methods as new measures of network topology and dynamics are created. In this paper, we employ for the first time the metrics betweenness, vulnerability and diversity to analyze written texts in Brazilian Portuguese. Using strategies based on diversity metrics, a better performance in automatic summarization is achieved in comparison to previous work employing complex networks. With an optimized method the Rouge score (an automatic evaluation method used in summarization) was 0.5089, which is the best value ever achieved for an extractive summarizer with statistical methods based on complex networks for Brazilian Portuguese. Furthermore, the diversity metric can detect keywords with high precision, which is why we believe it is suitable to produce good summaries. It is also shown that incorporating linguistic knowledge through a syntactic parser does enhance the performance of the automatic summarizers, as expected, but the increase in the Rouge score is only minor. These results reinforce the suitability of complex network methods for improving automatic summarizers in particular, and treating text in general.
Keywords: Summarization; Complex networks; Diversity metrics; Entropy; Syntactical dependency

Filipi N. Silva, Diego R. Amancio, Maria Bardosova, Luciano da F. Costa, Osvaldo N. Oliveira,
Using network science and text analytics to produce surveys in a scientific topic,
Journal of Informetrics,
Volume 10, Issue 2,
2016,
Pages 487-502,
ISSN 1751-1577,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joi.2016.03.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1751157715301966)
Abstract: The use of science to understand its own structure is becoming popular, but understanding the organization of knowledge areas is still limited because some patterns are only discoverable with proper computational treatment of large-scale datasets. In this paper, we introduce a framework to combine network-based methodologies and text analytics to construct the taxonomy of science fields. The methodology is illustrated with application to two topics: complex networks (CN) and photonic crystals (PC). We built citation networks using data from the Web of Science and used a community detection algorithm for partitioning to obtain science maps for the two topics. We also created an importance index for text analytics, which is employed to extract keywords that define the communities and, combined with network topology metrics, to generate dendrograms of relatedness among subtopics. Interesting patterns emerging from the analysis included identification of two well-defined communities in PC area, which is consistent with the known existence of two distinct communities of researchers in the area: telecommunication engineers and physicists. With the methodology, it was also possible to assess the interdisciplinary nature and time evolution of subtopics defined by the keywords. The automatic tools described here are potentially useful not only to provide an overview of scientific areas but also to assist scientists in performing systematic research on a specific topic.
Keywords: Entropy; Networks; Scientific map; Photonic crystals; Pattern recognition

Huajiao Li, Haizhong An, Yue Wang, Jiachen Huang, Xiangyun Gao,
Evolutionary features of academic articles co-keyword network and keywords co-occurrence network: Based on two-mode affiliation network,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 450,
2016,
Pages 657-669,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.01.017.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037843711600025X)
Abstract: Keeping abreast of trends in the articles and rapidly grasping a body of article’s key points and relationship from a holistic perspective is a new challenge in both literature research and text mining. As the important component, keywords can present the core idea of the academic article. Usually, articles on a single theme or area could share one or some same keywords, and we can analyze topological features and evolution of the articles co-keyword networks and keywords co-occurrence networks to realize the in-depth analysis of the articles. This paper seeks to integrate statistics, text mining, complex networks and visualization to analyze all of the academic articles on one given theme, complex network(s). All 5944 “complex networks” articles that were published between 1990 and 2013 and are available on the Web of Science are extracted. Based on the two-mode affiliation network theory, a new frontier of complex networks, we constructed two different networks, one taking the articles as nodes, the co-keyword relationships as edges and the quantity of co-keywords as the weight to construct articles co-keyword network, and another taking the articles’ keywords as nodes, the co-occurrence relationships as edges and the quantity of simultaneous co-occurrences as the weight to construct keyword co-occurrence network. An integrated method for analyzing the topological features and evolution of the articles co-keyword network and keywords co-occurrence networks is proposed, and we also defined a new function to measure the innovation coefficient of the articles in annual level. This paper provides a useful tool and process for successfully achieving in-depth analysis and rapid understanding of the trends and relationships of articles in a holistic perspective.
Keywords: Articles co-keyword network; Keywords co-occurrence network; Two-mode affiliation network; Topological features evolution; Innovation coefficient

Anjali Shishodia, Priyanka Verma, Vijaya Dixit,
Supplier evaluation for resilient project driven supply chain,
Computers & Industrial Engineering,
Volume 129,
2019,
Pages 465-478,
ISSN 0360-8352,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2019.02.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360835219300804)
Abstract: Project-based organizations are increasingly becoming dependent on suppliers because of an upward trend of subcontracting and an emphasis on core competencies. Projects can be viewed as complex networks consisting of several interdependent actors, and among them, suppliers are important entities. In project-based firms, the demand of the material supply chain is driven by the material requirement of the project, which is referred to as project-driven supply chains (PDSCs). PDSCs couple off-site supply chain activities (i.e., production, logistics, and inventory) with on-site project activities (i.e., scheduling, resource planning, and allocation), and thus exposure of this integration to any disruption may impede the progress of the project. This study evaluates the resilience capacity of existing suppliers of PDSC. More precisely, the objectives of the study are to determine the factors influencing supplier’s resilience in the context of PDSCs and to compute suppliers’ resilience scores. The factors are identified using published literature and scores are computed using fuzzy linguistic guided order weighted aggregation (FLQ-OWA) technique. The proposed methodology is implemented in a real project case (construction of hospital/health care facility). The computed resilience scores enable activity-wise analysis of supplier’s resilience which in turn, helps in classifying existing suppliers in distinct groups characterized by their resilience capability and providing early warning signals to the top managers of contractor’s organization to work proactively with all corrective measures planned at the onset of the project.
Keywords: Project risk; Project-driven supply chain (PDSC); Supplier resilience; Construction project; Supplier evaluation

Srinivas Rangarajan, Aditya Bhan, Prodromos Daoutidis,
Language-oriented rule-based reaction network generation and analysis: Description of RING,
Computers & Chemical Engineering,
Volume 45,
2012,
Pages 114-123,
ISSN 0098-1354,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compchemeng.2012.06.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0098135412001846)
Abstract: The input and output formats, and the structure of Rule Input Network Generator (RING), a computational tool for generation and analysis of complex reaction networks, are described with reference to the underlying algorithms from Cheminformatics and graph theory. RING consists of three modules: (a) a compiler that translates inputs written as a program in an English-like reaction language into internal representations and instructions, (b) a network generator that constructs an exhaustive reaction network from reaction rules and initial reactants specified, and (c) a post-processing module that can extract pathways, mechanisms, or lumps from the network based on user-specified instructions. RING can be used, in a rule-based manner, for constructing a large and complex reaction network from a set of elementary/overall reaction rules, and for elucidating transformations occurring in these networks through identifying pathways and mechanisms to specified products. RING is available open under GNU Lesser GPL.
Keywords: Rule-based network generation; Reaction network analysis; Pathway analysis; Mechanism elucidation; Domain specific language interface

Fausto Milletari, Seyed-Ahmad Ahmadi, Christine Kroll, Annika Plate, Verena Rozanski, Juliana Maiostre, Johannes Levin, Olaf Dietrich, Birgit Ertl-Wagner, Kai Bötzel, Nassir Navab,
Hough-CNN: Deep learning for segmentation of deep brain regions in MRI and ultrasound,
Computer Vision and Image Understanding,
Volume 164,
2017,
Pages 92-102,
ISSN 1077-3142,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cviu.2017.04.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1077314217300620)
Abstract: In this work we propose a novel approach to perform segmentation by leveraging the abstraction capabilities of convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Our method is based on Hough voting, a strategy that allows for fully automatic localisation and segmentation of the anatomies of interest. This approach does not only use the CNN classification outcomes, but it also implements voting by exploiting the features produced by the deepest portion of the network. We show that this learning-based segmentation method is robust, multi-region, flexible and can be easily adapted to different modalities. In the attempt to show the capabilities and the behaviour of CNNs when they are applied to medical image analysis, we perform a systematic study of the performances of six different network architectures, conceived according to state-of-the-art criteria, in various situations. We evaluate the impact of both different amount of training data and different data dimensionality (2D, 2.5D and 3D) on the final results. We show results on both MRI and transcranial US volumes depicting respectively 26 regions of the basal ganglia and the midbrain.
Keywords: Convolutional neural networks; Deep learning; Segmentation; Hough voting; Hough CNN; Ultrasound; MRI

Renaud Lambiotte, Vincent D. Blondel, Cristobald de Kerchove, Etienne Huens, Christophe Prieur, Zbigniew Smoreda, Paul Van Dooren,
Geographical dispersal of mobile communication networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 387, Issue 21,
2008,
Pages 5317-5325,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2008.05.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437108004342)
Abstract: In this paper, we analyze statistical properties of a communication network constructed from the records of a mobile phone company. The network consists of 2.5 million customers that have placed 810 million communications (phone calls and text messages) over a period of 6 months and for whom we have geographical home localization information. It is shown that the degree distribution in this network has a power-law degree distribution k−5 and that the probability that two customers are connected by a link follows a gravity model, i.e. decreases as d−2, where d is the distance between the customers. We also consider the geographical extension of communication triangles and we show that communication triangles are not only composed of geographically adjacent nodes but that they may extend over large distances. This last property is not captured by the existing models of geographical networks and in a last section we propose a new model that reproduces the observed property. Our model, which is based on the migration and on the local adaptation of agents, is then studied analytically and the resulting predictions are confirmed by computer simulations.
Keywords: Complex networks; Social networks; Mobile phone; Small-world

Mads Holten Rasmussen, Maxime Lefrançois, Pieter Pauwels, Christian Anker Hviid, Jan Karlshøj,
Managing interrelated project information in AEC Knowledge Graphs,
Automation in Construction,
Volume 108,
2019,
102956,
ISSN 0926-5805,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2019.102956.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0926580519300378)
Abstract: In the architecture, engineering and construction (AEC) industry stakeholders from different companies and backgrounds collaborate in realising a common goal being some physical structure. The exact goal is typically not known from the beginning, and throughout all design stages, new decisions are made - similarly to other design industries [1]. As a result, the design must adapt and subsequent consequences follow. With working methods being predominantly document-centric, highly interrelated and rapidly changing design data in a complex network of decisions, requirements and product specifications is primarily captured in static documents. In this paper, we consider a purely data-driven approach based on semantic web technologies and an earlier proposed Ontology for Property Management (OPM). The main contribution of this work consists of extensions for OPM to account for new competency questions including the description of property reliability and the reasoning logic behind derived properties. The secondary contribution is the specification of a homogeneous way to generate parametric queries for managing an OPM-compliant AEC Knowledge Graph (AEC-KG). A software library for operating an OPM-compliant AEC-KG is further presented in the form of an OPM Query Generator (OPM-QG). The library generates SPARQL 1.1 queries to query and manipulate construction project Knowledge Graphs represented using OPM. The OPM ontology aligns with latest developments in the W3C Community Group on Linked Building Data and suggests an approach to working with design data in a distributed environment using separate graphs for explicit facts and for materialised, deduced data. Finally, we evaluate the suggested approach using an open-source software artefact developed using OPM and OPM-QG, demonstrated online with an actual building Knowledge Graph. The particular design task evaluated is performing heat loss calculations for spaces of a future building using an AEC-KG described using domain- and project specific extensions of the Building Topology Ontology (BOT) in combination with OPM. With this work, we demonstrate how a typical engineering task can be accomplished and managed in an evolving design environment, thereby providing the engineers with insights to support decision making as changes occur. The application uses a strict division between the client viewer and the actual data model holding design logic, and can easily be extended to support other design tasks.
Keywords: Linked data; Building information modelling; Complex design; Ontology; Inference; Information exchange; BIM; AEC Knowledge Graph; Linked building data

Thiago Christiano Silva, Liang Zhao,
High-level pattern-based classification via tourist walks in networks,
Information Sciences,
Volume 294,
2015,
Pages 109-126,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2014.09.048.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025514009608)
Abstract: In this paper, we present a hybrid classification technique, which combines the decisions of low- and high-level classifiers. The low-level term realizes the classification task considering only the input data’s physical features, such as geometrical or statistical characteristics. In contrast, the high-level classification process checks the compliance of the new test instances against the pattern formations of each class that composes the training data. For this end, we extract suitable organizational and topological descriptors of a network that is constructed from the input data. With these descriptors, we show that the high-level term has the ability of detecting data patterns with semantic and global meanings. Here, the input data’s pattern formations are extracted by utilizing the dynamical information generated from several tourist walk processes, which are performed on the resulting network. Specifically, weighted combinations of transient and cycle lengths, which are derived variables from the tourist walks, are employed. Moreover, we show an effective method for calibrating the learning weights of these terms by using a statistical approach. Furthermore, we show that the tourist’s memory size is related to what extent one may capture organizational and complex features of the network. This means that local, quasi-local, and global features can be extracted, depending on the value of memory size parameter. Still in this work, we uncover the existence of a critical memory length, here denominated complex saturation, where any values larger than this critical point make no changes in the behaviors of the transient and cycle lengths. We also investigate several artificial and real-world situations where the low-level term alone fails to identify intrinsic data patterns, but the high-level term is able to perform well. Our investigation suggests that the proposed technique is able to improve the already optimized performance of traditional classification techniques. Finally, we apply the proposed technique in recognizing handwritten digits images and interesting results are obtained.
Keywords: High-level classification; Tourist walk; Supervised learning; Complex network; Machine learning; Pattern recognition

Viviane Deslandes, Luiz R.R. Faria, Marcelo E. Borges, Marcio R. Pie,
The structure of an avian syllable syntax network,
Behavioural Processes,
Volume 106,
2014,
Pages 53-59,
ISSN 0376-6357,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.beproc.2014.04.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0376635714001120)
Abstract: A common result in recent linguistic studies on word association networks is that their topology can often be described by Zipf's law, in which most words have few associations, whereas a few words are highly connected. However, little is known about syntactic networks in more rudimentary communication systems, which could represent a window into the early stages of language evolution. In this study, we investigate the syntactic network formed by syllable associations in the song of the oscine bird Troglodytes musculus. We use methods recently developed in the context of the study of complex networks to assess topological characteristics in the syntactic networks of T. musculus. We found statistically significant evidence for nestedness in the syllable association network of T. musculus, indicating network organization around a core of commonly used notes, small-world features, and a non-random degree distribution. Our analyses suggest the possibility of a balance between the maintenance of core notes and the acquisition/loss of rare notes through both cultural drift and improvisation. These results underscore the usefulness of investigating communication networks of other animal species in uncovering the initial steps in the evolution of complex syntax networks.
Keywords: House wren; Language evolution; Nestedness; Network; Oscines; Song; Syntax; Syllables; Troglodytes musculus

Srinivas Rangarajan, Ted Kaminski, Eric Van Wyk, Aditya Bhan, Prodromos Daoutidis,
Language-oriented rule-based reaction network generation and analysis: Algorithms of RING,
Computers & Chemical Engineering,
Volume 64,
2014,
Pages 124-137,
ISSN 0098-1354,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compchemeng.2014.02.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0098135414000398)
Abstract: The underlying algorithms of the language interface and post-generation analysis modules in RING, a network generation and analysis tool, are discussed. The front-end is a domain-specific reaction language developed with Silver, a meta-language based on attribute grammars. The language compiler translates user inputs written as a program into internal instructions, catches syntactic and semantic errors, and performs domain-specific optimization to speed up execution. In addition to generating reaction networks, RING allows post-processing analysis options to: (a) obtain reaction pathways and overall mechanisms from initial reactants to desired products using graph traversal algorithms, (b) group together isomers to reduce the size of the network through a novel molecule hashing technique, (c) calculate thermochemical quantities through semi-empirical methods such as group additivity, and (d) formulate and solve kinetic models of the entire or lumped complex network based on a rule-based kinetics specification scheme.
Keywords: Automated reaction network generation; Isomer lumping; Reaction network analysis; Kinetic modeling; Domain-specific languages; Extensible languages

Shuiyuan Yu, Haitao Liu, Chunshan Xu,
Statistical properties of Chinese phonemic networks,
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications,
Volume 390, Issue 7,
2011,
Pages 1370-1380,
ISSN 0378-4371,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2010.12.019.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437110010514)
Abstract: The study of properties of speech sound systems is of great significance in understanding the human cognitive mechanism and the working principles of speech sound systems. Some properties of speech sound systems, such as the listener-oriented feature and the talker-oriented feature, have been unveiled with the statistical study of phonemes in human languages and the research of the interrelations between human articulatory gestures and the corresponding acoustic parameters. With all the phonemes of speech sound systems treated as a coherent whole, our research, which focuses on the dynamic properties of speech sound systems in operation, investigates some statistical parameters of Chinese phoneme networks based on real text and dictionaries. The findings are as follows: phonemic networks have high connectivity degrees and short average distances; the degrees obey normal distribution and the weighted degrees obey power law distribution; vowels enjoy higher priority than consonants in the actual operation of speech sound systems; the phonemic networks have high robustness against targeted attacks and random errors. In addition, for investigating the structural properties of a speech sound system, a statistical study of dictionaries is conducted, which shows the higher frequency of shorter words and syllables and the tendency that the longer a word is, the shorter the syllables composing it are. From these structural properties and dynamic properties one can derive the following conclusion: the static structure of a speech sound system tends to promote communication efficiency and save articulation effort while the dynamic operation of this system gives preference to reliable transmission and easy recognition. In short, a speech sound system is an effective, efficient and reliable communication system optimized in many aspects.
Keywords: Phonemic network; Complex network; Speech sound system

Ying Ding,
Scientific collaboration and endorsement: Network analysis of coauthorship and citation networks,
Journal of Informetrics,
Volume 5, Issue 1,
2011,
Pages 187-203,
ISSN 1751-1577,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joi.2010.10.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1751157710000957)
Abstract: Scientific collaboration and endorsement are well-established research topics which utilize three kinds of methods: survey/questionnaire, bibliometrics, and complex network analysis. This paper combines topic modeling and path-finding algorithms to determine whether productive authors tend to collaborate with or cite researchers with the same or different interests, and whether highly cited authors tend to collaborate with or cite each other. Taking information retrieval as a test field, the results show that productive authors tend to directly coauthor with and closely cite colleagues sharing the same research interests; they do not generally collaborate directly with colleagues having different research topics, but instead directly or indirectly cite them; and highly cited authors do not generally coauthor with each other, but closely cite each other.
Keywords: Scientific collaboration; Scientific endorsement; Topic modeling; Path-finding algorithm

Carlos F. Daganzo,
The cell transmission model, part II: Network traffic,
Transportation Research Part B: Methodological,
Volume 29, Issue 2,
1995,
Pages 79-93,
ISSN 0191-2615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0191-2615(94)00022-R.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/019126159400022R)
Abstract: This article shows how the evolution of multi-commodity traffic flows over complex networks can be predicted over time, based on a simple macroscopic computer representation of traffic flow that is consistent with the kinematic wave theory under all traffic conditions. The method does not use ad hoc procedures to treat special situations. After a brief review of the basic model for one link, the article describes how three-legged junctions can be modeled. It then introduces a numerical procedure for networks, assuming that a time-varying origin-destination (O-D) table is given and that the proportion of turns at every junction is known. These assumptions are reasonable for numerical analysis of disaster evacuation plans. The results are then extended to the case where, instead of the turning proportions, the best routes to each destination from every junction are known at all times. For technical reasons explained in the text, the procedure is more complicated in this case, requiring more computer memory and more time for execution. The effort is estimated to be about an order of magnitude greater than for the static traffic assignment problem on a network of the same size. The procedure is ideally suited for parallel computing. It is hoped that the results in the article will lead to more realistic models of freeway flow, disaster evacuations and dynamic traffic assignment for the evening commute.

Ofilia I. Psomadaki, Charalampos A. Dimoulas, George M. Kalliris, Gregory Paschalidis,
Digital storytelling and audience engagement in cultural heritage management: A collaborative model based on the Digital City of Thessaloniki,
Journal of Cultural Heritage,
Volume 36,
2019,
Pages 12-22,
ISSN 1296-2074,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.culher.2018.07.016.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1296207417302583)
Abstract: Cities are complex, networked and continuously changing social ecosystems, shaped and transformed through the interaction of different interests and ambitions. They are linked to places, where various aspects of past events are projected and expressed by means of personal memories and narrations (urban memory), representing a promise for future: a vision of freedom, creativity, opportunity and prosperity. At the same time, technology is currently promoting unprecedented changes in urban areas, which are often marked as smart city developments. This paper studies the history of cultural and creative industries, bringing forward the dedicated digital storytelling strategies that promote active audience engagement in urban cultural heritage. A collaborative model is proposed and analyzed (in multiple perspectives), aiming at providing an integrated manner for heritage documentation, management and dissemination. The development deals with the Digital City of Thessaloniki, Greece, a big city, not a boundless one, rich in culture, but with rather poor heritage management mechanisms. The research focuses on theoretical and practical aspects for the citizens’ collection and interpretation of “digital heritage” documents (artifacts, places, etc.), resulting in a model that fuels audience engagement and collaboration of cultural organizations. Model-design is validated through state-of-the-art review and formative evaluation processes (both qualitative and quantitative), with an associated SWOT analysis that points out strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats. Although the proposed methodology has been adapted to the needs of a particular (digital) city, the current paper goes beyond a case study, as it brings forward novel technological and methodological guidelines, which could be successfully deployed in districts with similar cultural, geographical, and technical features.
Keywords: Collaborative heritage management; Mediated cultural experience; Non-linear storytelling; Arts participation; Audience engagement; Crowdsourcing; Heritage policy
